MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons & Dragons. We'll jump into the game here
shortly, but we have some quick announcements to get
through. First and foremost, congratulations Sam
on his Emmy win!
(cheering)
TRAVIS: You suck!
SAM: I did it, guys!
MATT: Thanks to one of our wonderful sponsors
tonight, I was able to add an Emmy to his
inventory from my phone just moments ago!
SAM: Yeah, I'm looking in my inventory right now.
It says "Emmy Award of Exempla--" It won't tell me
the rest of the title!
(laughter)
MATT: Exemplary Talent.
SAM: It's a wondrous item! "Rarity: Legendary.
This enchanted statue was given to the finest of
"creatives in the land. It's a large thinly-coated
lead icon made of cheap material." I'm going to
take a picture of that later. That's so cool!
MATT: That object brought to you by our first
sponsor tonight and sponsor for the campaign thus
far, our friends at D&D Beyond. Sam?
SAM: Guys, as you know, this week I received many
emails from fans who loved our D&D Beyond ad last
week. And they told me that I had missed part of
the story. To recap, our sponsor is D&D Beyond.
They are contributing $100 to 826LA for every
natural one we roll. Also, as part of their
massive 826LA charity initiative, we're past the
$10,000 tier, so D&D Beyond has offered up the
discount code "826LA" for 25% off their awesome
Legendary Bundle, which includes all the digital
materials available on D&D Beyond. Last week, to
honor that, I had dug through the archives and
found a commercial that D&D Beyond had run in the
'80s. We did a staged reading of it.
LAURA: It was great.
SAM: Fans wrote in and said, "Sam, you missed part
of that story." The ad campaign in the '80s was
not successful. However, it launched the career of
the young actress who played Gail in the
commercial. She was given her own spin-off sitcom
on CBS. It only ran four episodes, and those
episodes have been lost to time. But I was able to
find the script of a promo for the sitcom starring
Gail, from the D&D Beyond commercial, from the
80s!
ASHLEY: Really?!
SAM: Found it in the archives. We're going to do a
staged reading of this promo for this sitcom.
Brought to you by D&D Beyond. I'll be playing
Announcer; reprising their roles will be Laura as
the mom, Taliesin as the dad, and Ashley The
Johnson as Gail.
LAURA: Gail!
SAM: Here we go. Picture it. You're watching TV.
It's 8:30PM, primetime, and this promo comes on.
(announcer voice) "This fall on CBS, it's the
hilarious sitcom everyone's "stoked" about:
"You've Got Gail!"
TALIESIN: There are holes in all of my business
pants!
LAURA: Gail!
ASHLEY: Take a chill pill, Mrs. Henderson! I need
those crotches for my Home Ec project!
LAURA: This says, "Sew a quilt of fabric
swatches, not fabric crotches!"
ASHLEY: Oops!
(laughter)
SAM: That lovable scamp Gail gets her foster
parents, the Hendersons, into totally "gnarly" situations.
TALIESIN: Did you do your chores, Gail?
ASHLEY: Ch-yeah! Now I'm going to put on my
British Knight Sneakers and see that brand-new
movie, Labyrinth.
(laughter)
LAURA: Not so fast, young lady. I found my tuna
casserole in the garbage.
ASHLEY: No doy, Mrs. Henderson! You said, "Take
out the trash," and it was the stinkiest thing in
the house.
SAM: But it's not all fun and games. You've Got
Gail also tackles serious issues.
LAURA: Gail, your friend from school was just in a
car accident. She was drunk driving.
ASHLEY: (quietly) Gag me with a spoon, Mrs.
Henderson.
TALIESIN: Yes, Gail. Gag us all with a spoon.
(laughter)
SAM: You won't believe the trouble Gail gets into
every Thursday night!
LAURA: Gail, why didn't you do your report on
First Ladies?
ASHLEY: Because current First Lady Nancy Reagan
gave me some bitching advice!
TALIESIN: What kind of advice did Nancy Reagan
give you?
ASHLEY: When teacher says, "Do your homework,"
just say no!
TALIESIN and LAURA: Gail!
ASHLEY: Gag me with a spoon, Mr. and Mrs.
Henderson!
SAM: All-new You've Got Gail, every week right
after Growing Pains and before She's the Sheriff.
Presented by D&D Beyond!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Oh my god. It just gets better!
SAM: The character of Gail is amazing.
MATT: If Yasha ever leaves us this campaign, you
already have a backup character.
TRAVIS: Can I ask how you spell "doy?"
SAM: D-O-Y.
LIAM: I just got a text alert. They just revoked
his Emmy.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Due to unforeseen circumstances--
MATT: Thank you, Sam. Thank you, D&D Beyond, for
making this happen. We have another sponsor
returning this week: our friends at Obsidian for
Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire! Super excited.
First off, for those who aren't familiar with it,
Pillars of Eternity was a great RPG. Isometric,
classic-style RPG for PC and console later this
year. You get to return to the world of Eora. This
one is on the hunt for one of the gods, Eothas,
which plays into the story from the first game.
You don't have to have played the first one to
play the sequel, because they have built in a way
that gets you up to speed very quickly and
basically choose your decisions that you start the
game to still influence the story and where you're
going. A lot of the main characters in the story
are voiced by us here at the table! Which is
awesome. For a free DLC download, you'll be able
to download the portraits of Vox Machina as well
as voice sets to use in the game for your main
character and entire party. Check it out if you
haven't had a chance yet. It's an awesome RPG
series. Unbiased as I couldn't possibly be because
I was one of the first Kickstarter backers before
I was even part of the game. It's great. I really
enjoyed it. Check it out if you can. It comes out
next week on Tuesday, May 8th. You can order it at
versusevil.com/criticalrole. They've released
almost all the portraits so far, just in the past
couple of days. They've released Keyleth and Grog today.
LAURA: Keyleth's was adorable!
MATT: He's a real angry--!
TRAVIS: Just a Vidal Sassoon face right now.
LIAM: You can see the bits of food flying out of
his mouth.
MATT: I believe tomorrow they unveil Gilmore.
LAURA: That had been released already?
MATT: Yeah. Spoiler alert. Yeah, excited for that.
Thank you to our friends at Obsidian for allowing
us to be part of this awesome game.
LIAM: Oh man, I am going to play that game. That
is saying something, because I have no time for my
own physical or mental health! It's going to
happen.
LAURA: I am definitely going to be playing that
game, like right after the baby's born.
SAM: You'll have time. Get a wireless headphone so
you don't wake him or her.
TRAVIS: Me. Don't wake me.
SAM: Yeah. Just play. It'll be great.
MATT: All righty. Next up, we announced today that
we are headed to Gen Con! We're stoked about that.
You can go to critrole.com for any of the
information regarding our schedule that week.
We're going to be doing a live show on Friday, and
then we'll have panels and signings throughout the
weekend. Check out critrole.com for information on
our appearance there at Gen Con, and we're excited
to see you guys there. Tickets for the live show
will go on sale next Tuesday, May 8th, at 10:00AM
Eastern, 7:00AM Pacific. Keep tabs on our Critical
Role Twitter and website for information on that.
When that all goes up, we'll let you guys know.
Super excited to see you! We are also super close
to our $50,000 stretch goal for our 826 charity
that we're pushing. If you can, donate now to
826LA.org/criticalrole. Every dollar you donate
will be doubled, thanks to our fantastic Critter,
Mark, who has been so amazing in supporting this
endeavor. When we hit $50,000, I believe you will
be running another one-shot.
MARISHA: Another honey heist! More bears are back
in town.
LIAM: Make it happen.
SAM: (singing) The bears are back in town!
MATT: Let's see. Friendly weekly reminder for
Twitch Prime. If you have an Amazon Prime account,
you can attach it to your Twitch account and you
can subscribe to any Twitch channel you want to
for free, once per month. If you want to support
any of your fantastic Twitch streamers out there,
this is a way to do so at no extra dime. Recommend
it. We have new Twitch emotes available for our
subscribers, including the ones from the new
campaign. We also have a Nein emote for the $10
subscription tier, so there's that. Critical
Recap, if you haven't seen the recap before this
happens, you can go on YouTube and get a recap of
last week's episode by our fantastic Dani Carr.
She does that every week to recap what previously
happened in case you're too busy running around to
get caught up on what happened if you missed it,
but you still want to be here live. Talks Machina
is next Tuesday at 7 PM Pacific, where our
fantastic Brian W. Foster will bring a few of us
into his fold for the night to discuss what
happened for tonight's episode you're about to
watch. Oh man, we're getting out of here. Podcast
from last week is available, where all fine
podcasts are available to download, so keep up
with that. That's it! We're good! Done! Anything else?
MARISHA: Nice. That was a lot.
MATT: I want to get into the game. I'm impatient.
Thank you for your patience. With that guys, let's
go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of
Critical Role.
[click, TV static]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: Wow, you are so late on that!
LIAM: Nah, it was timed about how I wanted it.
MATT: Welcome back, everyone. As we watch Laura
complain about her macaroni salad.
LAURA: Is it like tuna in here? What's in here?
LIAM: This is the content you tuned in for.
LAURA: Is there tuna in here? I think there is.
TALIESIN: No one really knows.
MATT: Macaroni salad is the Wild West of culinary
delights.
ASHLEY: It's the tuna casserole you were talking
about.
LAURA: I'm not supposed to have tuna!
(laughter)
MATT: Daredevil Laura Bailey, ladies and
gentlemen. Bringing it back in. The Mighty Nein in
the city of Zadash. Long in the Dwendalian Empire,
you've made a small name for yourself in a few
factions. You've done a deed or two for the King's
Hall here in service of the Crown. You've done a
deed or two with the Knights of Requital, that
involved getting caught up briefly in a manhunt,
as you were loosely responsible for the death of
the High-Richter, the high judge of the local
court. Managed to make an introductory trade, a
deal if you will, with The Gentleman, this
subterranean figure of not the most legal of
maneuvers. You delved deep into one of the
subterranean river tunnels beneath the city of
Zadash for him, managed to clear out and recover
materials from a long-buried research facility
from the Age of Arcanum.
Upon returning, the deal was solid. You managed to
smuggle out Horris, who needed to be away from the
town for the time being while this investigation
was happening. In doing so, also managed to clear
your names of the death of the High-Richter. Upon
returning back, getting a few deeds done, now
waiting for this to blow over, and hearing word
that there is no longer a manhunt for a number of
you in cahoots to this, you begin to prepare for
the coming Harvest Close Festival. Now we're
getting close to the third of the month of
Fessuran, you've all managed to prepare in the
ways you want, got a few things on your side.
You've delved into some of the mysteries of the
beacon that you maintain. You've retrieved your
Forever Alcoholic Flask. That's where we'll begin
today. Friends, as the early morning creeps up
upon you, the chilled morning air has left a bit
of ice and mist crawling across areas of the city
floor, from outside your window here in the Leaky
Tap tavern. However, though it is a gloomy
morning, there is already a general air of
celebration around. Glancing across, more people
are now shifting out into the street and city
around you. Music is beginning to creep into the
vicinity, and you can hear muffling through the
nearby walls.
LAURA: Well struck, my lord!
TRAVIS: (high voice) Well struck, my lord!
MATT: As you all awaken, hearing this outside,
what do you wish to do?
LAURA: (gasps) It's a celebration!
SAM: Your spidey sense is tingling?
LAURA: Yes. Can you hear the difference?
TALIESIN: It sounds like there's very expensive
things to drink and eat. I'm going to get my pocketbook.
SAM: Lots of pockets to pick!
MARISHA: Lots of bar brawls to start. Yeah.
LIAM: Can I ask a retroactive question? Caleb, and
maybe Beauregard, read all of Siff's journal?
MATT: Yep.
LIAM: Was anything more to be gleaned from reading
the entire thing?
MATT: Just more understanding of the same notes
you read before. From what remains of the tome,
you managed to quickly grab the Cliff Notes of it
as you glanced through it, and the more
information you pulled from it filled out that
your thoughts on those tidbits were correct.
LIAM: Okay, and then the only other question I
have is I don't remember what time of day the
party ended the day. If there was time I would've
used paper and scrolls to transcribe into my book,
if there was time.
MATT: Yeah, there's been a few days. You would've
had time.
LIAM: Okay, good.
LAURA: Is it the morning?
MATT: It is the morning. You have awoken--
LAURA: I'm going to spend a minute focusing on the
mote and get a point!
SAM: On the what? The mote?
MATT: She takes the beacon, focusing on this
strange artifact that you procured from the grip
of the Xhorhasian assassin. You feel yourself
extend into it and now being your first time to
focus on it, it's a lot to take in. You feel your
essence shift into this space, this strange
dimensional between. Though not fully
understanding it, you're brought the same image of
dozens of yourself and this sense of infinity.
There before you, you see the strange gray mote,
and you reach out in the way that you saw Caleb's
hand reach. At that moment, you feel it shift and
vanish into your chest, the warmth sifting into
the center of your rib cage and then your eyes
focus once more, and you're back in your chamber.
MARISHA: Well, that was kind of cool.
LAURA: Did you know that we have a special weapon
now?
MARISHA: I do as of right now with you telling
me.
LAURA: This thing, you can get this mote of
possibility. Basically, you get to affect time.
I'm not exactly sure how it works, but it's really
cool.
MARISHA: Do you feel all right?
LAURA: I feel really powerful and stuff, inside.
MARISHA: Like how much more powerful?
LAURA: Like five percent.
MARISHA: Punch me. I want to tell.
LAURA: Okay. I'll punch her.
MATT: All right, roll an attack.
LAURA: Oh jeez, I dropped it. That doesn't count.
I don't punch her very hard. I'm going to pull my
punch, because I only rolled a five.
LIAM: That sounded like "pooing my pants."
MATT: I mean, if you're not dodging.
MARISHA: I'm like, come on.
MATT: Yeah, then you hit her.
LAURA: Oh, I hit her? Yes! Okay, so now I roll for
damage?
MATT: Well it's one plus your strength modifier.
LAURA: Four damage!
MATT: You take four points of damage from a sheer
punch to your shoulder!
MARISHA: Holy shit, Jester! What the fuck?
LAURA: Rawr!
MARISHA: Ow! Okay, that's awesome.
LAURA: Do you have dead arm?
MARISHA: Yes!
LAURA: Wait, if I punch you in your ass you'll get
dead leg. Have you ever tried it? Yeah, I punch
her in her butt and try to give her dead leg.
MATT: Okay, I think she is dodging this one so
roll for this one.
LAURA: Oh man, come on! What do I add to it?
MATT: I'll say you're proficient in unarmed
because you're just punching, sure. You add your
strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
LAURA: This is shit. Oh plus the proficiency. No,
it's still not enough. It's like nine. Nein!
MATT: She does manage to step out of the way, now
being more defensive from giving her a dead leg.
MARISHA: I move and do a little hip bump. Get out
of the way.
LAURA: I wasn't trying to hit you anyway. I didn't
want to hit you.
MARISHA: Just a little hip action, I've been
working on it.
LAURA: Anyway, I have this thing, and I could've
used it then to really hit you but I'm not going
to. I'm going to save it for something really
powerful. Are you in the room, Yasha?
ASHLEY: I feel like I slept outside? I was going
to interact. I think I slept outside. I forgot.
TALIESIN: I think we're all up and moving at this
point.
MATT: As you ask this question, Yasha is not in
the room.
MARISHA: Hey, Jester. That was you who said
something when you were talking to the Xhorhasian
assassin about babies not being born, or something
like that?
LAURA: Did I say something like that?
MARISHA: I think you were like, "Oh no, the
babies!" Something about babies.
LAURA: He had said that this thing would help them
with having babies, yeah. I would assume if we
have it then he won't be able to have babies.
MARISHA: You know how that town crier was talking
about kids being stolen? You think they're connected?
LAURA: Probably. That's really smart, Beau.
MARISHA: Thanks. I wanted to run it by you.
LAURA: Where was it happening? It was along the
border, huh? In Nogvurot? Yeah, that's where it
was happening.
MARISHA: You have a good memory.
LAURA: I know.
SAM: (whispering) Where is that?
LAURA: Nogvurot is along the border.
MARISHA: I know there's a garrison out there.
LAURA: (laughter) Northward.
MATT: You have a map.
SAM: Is it near Xhorhas?
LAURA: I brought it back in, didn't I?
MARISHA: Oh, it doesn't count as using your memory
if you're reading it, Jester. Come on! That's not fair.
LAURA: I didn't read it! I'm pulling my map out
now.
MATT: Nogvurot is actually northward, a little bit
east of Rexxentrum.
SAM: Right there.
LAURA: Oh, that's not at all where I thought it
was. I thought it was over by the Ashguard
Garrison, but it's not. Yeah, weird. Maybe it's
not connected, then. Unless there are a lot of
them, the bad guys, in Nogvurot, which we could
check out.
MARISHA: I heard a rumor last night that more are
getting through. I don't know.
LAURA: I wonder how. I wonder if there's an
underground passage that people aren't seeing or
something. Or maybe they can go invisible. Or
maybe they have an airship! Or maybe they can turn
into mist, and fly through the air where people
can't see them. I've heard of people doing that.
MARISHA: All possibilities, yeah.
TRAVIS: (knocking) Y'all up?
MARISHA: No!
LAURA: Fjord! Come in!
TRAVIS: We're going out.
MARISHA: I'm naked! I'm not naked.
LAURA: Fjord! There's a celebration going
outside!
TRAVIS: I can hear them. I think we're going to
head downstairs if y'all want to join.
LAURA: Yes! I run outside.
MATT: All right, so you guys start heading
downstairs. Who all is gathering down there with them?
SAM: Everybody!
MATT: All right, everybody. Yasha, you napped in
the side alleyway in the open air, sleeping with
one eye open, being careful. As you wake up in the
cold morning mist, the mist has caused this
dampness around your chin and hair--
ASHLEY: Around my glorious beard?
MATT: Your glorious beard, right there. Frost
beard.
ASHLEY: I don't have a beard.
MATT: No. It gets really cold in the early morning
and bits of frost have gathered at the edges of
your hair, so you brush off it a bit. As you
gather yourself and look out past the street, the
music's already starting to swell very strongly
from a distance, and a few musicians come by
playing on their own. Some folks are starting to
rouse and begin cooking things. The smell of meats
and fresh morning meals are beginning to find your
nostrils, and you decide you probably should check in.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'll go check in.
MATT: You come in, the rest of you all gather in
the bottom tavern area of the Leaky Tap. What
would you like to do?
SAM: Does anyone know how this festival works?
What are we celebrating again?
LAURA: The close of the harvest.
SAM: It's just for funsies and we go around and
sample wares and things?
MARISHA: Nott, have you never been to a festival?
SAM: I've been to a festival.
TRAVIS: It's general revelry. You know: drink,
eat, dance.
SAM: Not a big one. You know, small ones.
LAURA: About what?
SAM: You know, end of the season and beginning of
the season. You know, that sort of stuff. People's
weddings, that sort of thing.
MATT: There's a new female who's running the bar.
She is now also coming to consciousness. She's
coming around to preparing the bar. Passed out,
face down. Looks to be in her early 50s or so,
long black hair that goes just past the chest
area--
LAURA: The chest area?
MATT: Respectfully choosing words, Laura. Past her
heaping bosom? What do you want me to say?!
TALIESIN: I think you've had enough.
LIAM: Right around her titties? The titty area?
TRAVIS: Take that tuna away.
TALIESIN: It's making you weird.
MATT: Laura Bailey, forward-thinking feminist!
(laughter)
LAURA: I'm sorry.
MATT: It's all right.
LIAM: Once you have a child, I want you to turn on
a dime like a Tartuffe character and be matronly
and severe.
SAM: Don't curse!
MATT: That's not going to happen.
LAURA: Don't talk about titties!
MATT: Anyway, this female you haven't seen before
who's in the process of running the bar, very much
in the same way that you saw Wessek the
dragonborn, or previous before that, Claudia.
LAURA: (whispering) I wonder if that's the new
owner.
MARISHA: Yeah. Wait, what's she look like? Did you
say something?
MATT: Human, 50s, long black hair.
LAURA: Past the tatas.
MARISHA: I bet that's her. Oh, that's right. I got
so distracted by you.
ASHLEY: I'll walk in and give them a nod, and then
go get an ale. First things first.
MATT: "What can I get you?"
ASHLEY: Just a big a drink, an ale.
MATT: "Easy enough to do. I'll be right back," and
she goes and fetches you a drink. All right, so.
For this part of the festival-- are you going for
an ale or a stiff drink?
ASHLEY: An ale. It's morning.
TRAVIS: Slow burn.
LIAM: I wonder if the new proprietor knows there
is a dead person in the basement.
SAM: It's not a dead person. It's a skeleton. It
seems old. I mean I suppose it's a dead person.
LIAM: That is exactly what it is.
SAM: I guess so.
LAURA: Was it a dead human or a dead tiefling or a
dead--
SAM: It seemed human-ish.
LIAM: Well there were no horns, and when you're a
skeleton your ears are rotted away so I do not know.
LAURA: It could've been an elf.
LIAM: It could've been.
TRAVIS: Are there any people, I don't know,
juggling and shit? Or any shows going on?
MATT: Not in the tavern currently. It seems most
everyone outside is walking in one direction,
though. A lot of the folks that are starting to
gather are all heading past the entranceway and
heading in a leftward path from looking out from
the tavern.
SAM: Should we join them?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I want to see.
TALIESIN: I definitely want to see this.
MARISHA: You can carry booze in the streets here,
right? It's like Vegas? Open carry?
SAM: Wait! No, not open carry. Open container.
MATT: There you go. You have seen people walk with
various drinks in their hand without an issue before.
SAM: Let's go!
TALIESIN: I'm very much about this. We'll get that
to-go.
MARISHA: How was the new lady? Was she nice, was
she a bitch?
ASHLEY: She just, I mean, she gives you your
drink, so I think it's a nice woman to me.
SAM: What was her name?
ASHLEY: I have no idea.
MARISHA: I bet she's a bitch.
LAURA: Why would you say that?
MARISHA: I don't know. Because I want to buy this
place, so I don't want to like her.
LIAM: Do you know that there is a dead person in
the basement here?
MARISHA: Maybe we can use that to run her out!
LAURA: There's a skeleton in the basement,
apparently.
ASHLEY: Oh.
TALIESIN: I sort of agree with Nott on this, I
think there comes a point where it's a skeleton
and not an actual dead person at this point. I
mean, I know it is a dead person.
LIAM: I don't think that's correct, actually. I
think it's both things at the same time.
TALIESIN: I think there's a point where it's like
a piece of fruit, but it's been out so long that
even conceiving of it as a piece of fruit is not
useful.
MARISHA: That's a good point.
LIAM: I am pretty sure that's incorrect.
MARISHA: Do you call a cherry pit a dead cherry?
TRAVIS: I start walking towards the--
LAURA: Could you still eat the body? If you can't
eat the body anymore then it's not a person.
LIAM: You can eat anything if you are determined
enough.
TALIESIN: That is also a very fair point.
MATT: Fjord has left the Schrödinger's skeleton
conversation.
TALIESIN: Fjord, don't you dare have fun without
us! I'm rolling out the door.
MATT: Go for it. Molly gives chase.
LAURA: I chase after them too.
SAM: I'll put on my mask and join.
ASHLEY: Slam down my-- go.
MATT: At this point now, the chilled late morning
beneath the cloud covered skies, the streets are
filled with all manner of people and families
walking with baskets and colored streamers behind
them. The large banners of silk of the autumn
colors that were previously being placed up in the
streets are in full display. The gentle wind is
causing them to flicker and flap as the music
weaves with the sound of the fabric. Small bands
of bards and musicians mark nearly every street
intersection, filling the air with music, poems,
and cheer. It's a very stark difference to the
lock-down that held the city over the past week
and a half or so. The closer you begin to follow
the crowds as they move along, hearing the
chuckles of children and the conversations and
laughter that seem to burble out of every street
corner, it pushes you in the direction of the
Pentamarket. That's when the smells of spices and
incense begin to come in waves as you follow the
sauntering crowds, eventually that smell overcome
by the smell of cooked meat pies and roasted
vegetables billowing from the various food carts
that line the corners of the streets before you.
LIAM: I want to be at Ren Faire.
LAURA: I know!
MATT: The flickering of the wind is now this weird
syncopation that's blending with the sound of the
distant drums and ocarinas and flutes that are
beginning to pipe into the strange din in the
streets. You see a number of games of skill and
chance that have been set up in the distance too,
amongst the crowds, as people begin to weave
through. To the left, you can see someone loudly
proclaiming, "Want to play Trebuchet, anyone?" and
down the way another voice calling out, "King's
"Vault!" You can see more games in the distance
beyond there. More stages are set up with food and
it's a veritable smörgåsbord of celebration. What
do you guys want to do?
TRAVIS: Trebuchet sounds pretty fucking sweet.
TALIESIN: I think we're immediately heading to
Trebuchet.
MARISHA: What do you mean? Is Trebuchet like a
trebuchet?
TRAVIS: How the fuck do we know? We're going to
find out, though.
TALIESIN: Do you fire it? Do you sit in it? I
don't know. There's only one way to find out.
LIAM: I'm going to start walking towards the other
one, the king's thing.
LAURA: All by yourself, Caleb?
SAM: I'm going with Caleb. Want to come?
LAURA: I want to get thrown in a trebuchet.
SAM: Go with them, then.
LAURA: Okay. Does it seem like there are more
guards around than usual? Are the guards relaxed?
MATT: The guards are relaxed, but there's
definitely a large presence, and in fact, a number
of the games are run by the guards. In fact,
Trebuchet, as you approach, you see two guards,
male and female, that are both in the process of
lifting a three or four year old girl, and she has
a sandbag in her hand. They're like, "One, two,
three!" and she throws it and it gets close, but
stops before the basket, but they cheer her on,
"Yay!" and set her down.
MARISHA: Aww, I thought they were going to throw
her.
LAURA: Like a wonder child!
LIAM: Don't worry. If she falls, they kill her.
MATT: The kid runs off and grabs the bag and comes
back and they lift her again. They go, "One,
"two--" and they give her even more of a swing so
she gets a little more distance. It hits the edge
and then tips off to the side and they go, "Aww"
and the crowd who had gathered around "Awws" with
her. The little girl smiles and gives them a hug
and then runs off. One of the guards turns as you
guys begin to approach and shouts to the crowd,
"Trebuchet, anyone wish to play?"
TRAVIS: Yes. Most definitely.
MATT: "Five copper for three throws."
TRAVIS: Yeah. Here's ten copper for Molly and me.
MATT: "Sipes?" The other guard goes, "All right,"
pulls up three of the sandbags and hands them to
you. "That basket there and that line there." You
see that they were in between for the kids' reach,
but there's about a ten-foot distance of small,
thin carpet that's placed behind the line leading
to this open wicker basket that's about a foot and
a half wide. You have to throw overhead, facing away.
TRAVIS: Oh shit.
SAM: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.
LAURA: Do we need to pick them up and do the thing
like you did with the child?
MATT: "You are more than welcome to try. I'd love
to see that happen. That is not necessary."
TRAVIS: No, it's all right. Let me try it on my
own first. For dignity's sake.
MATT: As you stand there, you take the sandbag and
in a trebuchet-like motion, lob it overhead
without quite looking, assuming the direction. Go
ahead and make a dexterity check with disadvantage please.
TRAVIS: I didn't need that disadv-- That's a
natural one.
(laughter)
SAM: $100 for 826LA.
MATT: You lob it and hear, (pained grunt) and
everybody goes "Oh!" and you turn around.
TRAVIS: Sorry, friend. Yeah, that's a purple
heart, sorry man. Jeez.
MATT: You turn around. You can see the mother of
the small kid that was first throwing, and she's
rubbing the side of her face.
LAURA: You hit a mother.
TRAVIS: Find her a soothing-- something to take
the pain off.
MATT: She goes, "Ah, it's fine." Looks up at you
and goes, "Come on." She grabs her kid's arm and
they both leave deeper into the crowd.
LAURA: You should have let me and Yasha pick you
up.
TRAVIS: No. I've got this. Resituate. Grab a bit
of a glance. (grunts)
MATT: All right, try again.
TRAVIS: That's another natural one.
LIAM: Cha-ching!
MATT: As you, one, two--
TRAVIS: This happened at Ren Fair before.
MATT: You go to heave the sack, and as it does, it
gets caught on part of your breastplate and as you
pull upward there's a (ripping) as sand goes
scattering into the sky around, emptying the bag
and pouring over you into your eyes. (spitting)
Laughter starts to gather in the crowd around and
some small clapping.
MARISHA: Again, again!
TRAVIS: I can't believe I'm about to say this, but
let's give it a try.
LAURA: (gasps) Okay. Yasha, you get on one side.
I'll get on the other.
ASHLEY: Okay. That's fine.
MATT: "Well, you have one more throw."
TRAVIS: That's what I mean. I got them helping
me.
MATT: "Which one of you is taking the other
throw?"
LAURA: Oh, no. We're going to pick Fjord up the
way that you did the little child.
MATT: "Oh, perfect. There you go."
TRAVIS: Two shit throws in a row. It can't get any
fucking worse.
LIAM: Come on, one!
Yes! Yes! Yes!
ASHLEY: No!
LIAM: Yes! Yes!
MATT: That's ridiculous!
ASHLEY: Seriously?! Throw that away!
LAURA: You need to put that shit in jail.
TALIESIN: You shouldn't have hit that woman with a
sandbag.
LIAM: That's all right. You got them out of the
way. When we fight a basilisk later, all those
ones are gone.
MATT: Jester, Yasha. How do you want to do this?
LAURA: We throw Fjord.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I don't think we help him. We just
(whoosh).
MATT: They literally shot put Fjord about three or
four feet. (surprised grunt)
ASHLEY: Did we get him in?
MATT: No. He gets about four feet before he goes
face first into the carpet. The carpet balls up in
front of him as he skids for another foot, foot
and a half, with his feet up in the air before
they come to rest. There's a dust cloud. There's a
loud gathering of voices going, "Ooh" and then
silent as the music plays in the distance.
TRAVIS: (coughing) I think that might have-- I'm
going to get a drink. You guys carry on.
Ow, my pride.
ASHLEY and LAURA: Molly!
MATT: The female guard goes and straightens out
the carpet to get it right. "Five copper."
TALIESIN: No, he paid already.
MATT: "Oh that's right. Then, by all means."
TALIESIN: It's a dexterity? With disadvantage.
MATT: Because you're looking away. It's not a hard
DC but--
TALIESIN: 19.
MATT: 19? (whoosh) (thud) "Whoa!" The crowd begins
cheering. "Yeah!"
LAURA: Yay Molly!
MATT: They hand you a second one.
LAURA: Does he get a prize?
MATT: "At the end."
TALIESIN: I think I may have to-- I've spent my
luck. I think it may be off to you and then one for you.
ASHLEY: Oh, okay.
LAURA: Really?
TALIESIN: Three throws. One each.
LAURA: Okay!
ASHLEY: By all means, Jester.
SAM: Jester, use these.
LAURA: No!
Oh, no!
TALIESIN: It's still not terrible.
LAURA: I rolled two twos.
TALIESIN: That's a six.
MATT: Jester. You throw it with all your strength,
and it goes straight up. Hits you in the top of
the head and dangles off one of your horns.
LAURA: Did it mess up my jewelry?
ASHLEY: Here, hold on.
TALIESIN: Wait. Right, let's just--
ASHLEY: Don't let it snag the earrings.
TALIESIN: It's out.
LAURA: Thank you. Go Yasha!
MATT: All right.
ASHLEY: Four.
TRAVIS: We suck at this.
ASHLEY: Just let me do it. I know I'll get it in.
MATT: As it arcs, it lands. There's a little poof
of dust behind. It only gets about four feet from
you, unfortunately.
ASHLEY: It's like a weird shape, you know?
LAURA: It changes in the air.
TALIESIN: I hardly know, but I've thrown a baby
before. Odd.
MATT: "However, we do have one successful in!" and
they reach over into a satchel on the side and
pull out-- "A fresh strawberry for the victor."
LAURA: That's it? A strawberry?
TRAVIS: Is it red?
MATT: It's actually pretty tasty. Fresh, sweet.
It's delicious.
TALIESIN: Mmm. Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: How much for a strawberry?
MATT: "Oh, we don't sell the strawberries. You can
buy them further in. Here, you pay for the
"prestige of a victory and a strawberry. If you get
all three, you get a candied apple."
LAURA: (gasps)
TALIESIN: (muffled) Tastes better with the
victory.
TRAVIS: All right, what was the other game? Forget
this.
LAURA: Caleb and Nott are already there.
MATT: While this was transpiring, you guys go to
catch up while Caleb and Nott have approached the
young half-elven woman who is shouting, "King's
Vault!" As you approach, you see she has her hair
tied back, and she's barking with this utmost
confidence. "King's Vault! Come play! Anyone, come
"to the front! Show us your majesty of attention!"
LIAM: Yeah, what sort of game is it that you are
running?
MATT: "Well, you place either a silver or a gold
piece up and I will--" and she pulls up three
silver cups. "I will place it underneath one of
these. Mix it around. Pay attention. Guess the
"right one. Get your coin back plus one. Get it
wrong, coin stays with me. Simple game."
LIAM: Well, I just so happen to have three silver
on me. It takes one silver to play?
MATT: "Yes. At least."
LIAM: At least. Well, I am feeling lucky today and
always. Here it is.
MATT: "Onto the table." She takes the center cup
(click). Cup's over it.
SAM: I'm looking. I'm going to hold my wire up to
my mouth.
MATT: All righty. That being the case, I would
like you both to roll a perception check.
LIAM: Does my Keen Mind help me at all in this
situation?
MATT: Strangely, it does not.
LIAM: Natural 20.
(cheering)
SAM: Four.
MATT: As soon as she finishes the rotation, she
stops and goes, "Very well," and you, has to be
the right one. Has to be the center.
LIAM: I will go with the center one.
SAM: It's the one on the right!
LIAM: I think it is this one right here.
SAM: The right one. No! You're getting the wrong
one! The right one!
LIAM: I will go with the middle one. I think it's
probably the correct place.
MATT: She tips the cup. Indeed the silver is
there. "Congratulations! With that, your earnings
"doubled," and gives you a secondary silver.
LIAM: Two silver. Well, you know, I just wanted to
play the game. I'm not trying to make any money.
Did you want to do anything here?
SAM: I'd like to compete please.
LIAM: I give her my two silver. Do me proud.
SAM: Yes please.
MATT: "A silver?"
SAM: Yeah, here.
MATT: "Of course." Coin goes down. Cups over it.
Now there's a small crowd gathering. Now people
are starting to watch. There was a victory
apparently, and some cheers.
LIAM: I am going to back up like five or six steps
and also do the same thing Nott did.
MATT: She begins shifting and shifting and
shifting and shifting. Eyes focused on you.
Starting to look strangely at you. "Very well.
Choose." Now go ahead and roll a perception check.
SAM: That's a natural one.
(cheering)
MATT: You were paying attention. All of a sudden,
you lost it. Looking up at her eyes, you were so
caught off guard by her staring at your fairly
well-concealed goblin visage, but seemingly not
enough, as she has a curious raised eyebrow. That
spooks you for a second. You go "Oh, shit!" You
lost track of the cups.
LIAM: I got a total of 20.
MATT: Total of 20. On the perception? Okay. "What
are you going to pick?"
SAM: I will choose-- eenie, meenie, miney.
LIAM: Do I get a chance to whisper to her what I
saw? Because I want to do the same thing.
MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.
LIAM: Yeah okay.
Oh, that's not so good. That is a six.
MATT: As you begin to pull your hands up and
mutter your incantations, she goes, "Ahem. No
"funny business."
LIAM: Oh, I am a funny guy.
MATT: "I could tell. Ha ha. Now?"
SAM: I'm going to pick the one on-- the middle.
MATT: "The middle." She pulls the cup back. Empty.
"Aw. A good try." Scoops the coin off the table.
SAM: I failed you, Caleb! I'm so sorry. I took
your silver, and I let it go. I'm sorry.
LIAM: Yeah, but you know also, the other day, you
gave me 200 gold, so it's not really a problem.
SAM: I know, but it's the principle.
MATT: "Well if you have 200 gold, you are more
than welcome to place a gold piece up here as well."
SAM: We're okay. Thank you.
MATT: "Very well."
LIAM: I give her the stink-eye as we walk away.
MATT: "Take care of your green friend there."
LIAM: I intensify the stink-eye.
MATT: At this point, you guys turn around and you
see the rest of your party has caught up to you.
Fjord covered in dry dust.
TALIESIN: I won a strawberry.
MARISHA: Fjord can't throw.
LIAM: Did you have a different kind of dream?
TRAVIS: N-- No.
LIAM: Beat again.
SAM: He won a silver, but I lost it.
ASHLEY: What game did you play?
LIAM: It was called King's Crown.
SAM: King's Vault.
LIAM: That's what I said.
LAURA: Oh, the one where they spin it around and
you see which cup it is.
LIAM: She was very quick, yeah.
ASHLEY: I wonder if there are any more games.
MATT: You glance around, keeping an eye open as
you guys continue. You've now hit the deeper edge
of the Pentamarket. The crowds around you are
fairly dense at this point. There are people
laughing and talking. They're carrying various
baked goods that are fresh out of the nearby carts
or oven. The smell creeps into your senses and
takes over from that point. Children run past and
bump you in the side. Some are holding two ends of
a streamer, and the streamers continue past and
flap around, hitting people. It's adorable and
delightfully intense. The guard presence is very
much felt here, but everyone is in high spirits.
You get the sense that everyone has been waiting
to get to this festival, to this moment here. It's
a much different atmosphere than the gala you had
seen a week before in the Tri-Spires.
TRAVIS: They needed this catharsis, it feels
like.
TALIESIN Quite a party.
MARISHA: I want to find the most ridiculous mead
out there.
MATT: Oh, there are quite a few mead stands, so
it's easy enough for you. Make an investigation check.
TRAVIS: Meat or mead?
MARISHA: Mead.
LAURA: I want to find the candied apples.
MARISHA: 17.
MATT: Very easy to find through a couple of
sleight questions to some of the noncompetitive
barkers. You manage to find a small meadery stand
that's near the outskirts of one of the large
arena structures, that you haven't seen used since
you arrived in this city. As you approach, the
older guy there, with this curled and unkempt
chin-beard that looks like part of it isn't
growing on the right side. You approach and he has
all this thick, dark jugs of mead, and he is like,
"Hey, you want some mead?"
MARISHA: Yeah, do you have mead that doesn't taste
like piss?
MATT: "I have mead that'll get you fucked up."
MARISHA: That'll do.
MATT: "Might taste like piss still."
SAM: He did not answer your question.
LIAM: That'll do, pig.
MARISHA: What's your highest proof mead?
MATT: He picks up one jug (sniffs). "That one" and
hold it out for you to smell. It's pretty strong.
It smells slightly acrid, but not in a bad way.
Just in a strong mead way.
TRAVIS: Slightly vinegar.
MARISHA: Still smells like piss, man.
MATT: "Welp, depends what you want. Do you want
strong or do you want tasty? You got to pick."
MARISHA: Strong.
TRAVIS: Oh yeah, good choice.
MATT: "That'll be a nice, fair filled cup. For a
silver."
TALIESIN: This about when I run up: What'd you
get?
MARISHA: Barbarian pee, but it's good.
TALIESIN: What are the options?
MATT: He pulls up three jugs. He says, "This end,
tasty. This end, fuck you up. This one, little bit
"of A, little bit of B."
TALIESIN: I'll take whatever's most expensive.
MATT: Grabs the same stuff that Beau got, the
heavier, thick stuff. Pours, gives you a cup full
of it. "That'll be a silver piece."
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Takes it. It's strong, the aftertaste isn't
too bad. It's the initial, weird, sour, vinegary,
impact, but then the sweetness comes in afterward.
It sets well, and it's strong. As you guys are
walking around and keeping an eye, you do see
there is another stand that has an elevated
platform called Titan's Grasp. There are four
soldiers of the Righteous Brand, the Empire
Military, that are currently manning it. They're
wearing their plate mail of silver and
dark-crimson design. A large, cubed stone, two
feet by two feet, is set on top of this platform
with a metal bar that is wedged beneath it, that
it's leaning against. The metal bar has a
cylindrical center point, like a fulcrum. There is
a large hammer, that one of them is currently
holding to the side. As you begin to approach, you
see one guy there, who's currently spitting into
his hands, grabs the hammer (grunts). As he hits
the metal bar, the stone goes (slight scraping)
barely shifts. He sets down the hammer and
everyone's like: "Yay" and he goes, "I moved it!"
Steps down off the platform.
TRAVIS: They're celebrating anything these days.
LAURA: Yasha!
ASHLEY and LAURA: We should go play this game.
ASHLEY: I was really looking forward to looking
for ridiculous meats. Not meads, but maybe we can--
MARISHA: Oh, meat sounds great too.
TRAVIS: Yeah, the day is young.
ASHLEY: Let's go play this game.
TRAVIS: Not play, crush this game.
LAURA: We get a candied apple, okay?
MATT: You approach the four soldiers that are up
there. One of them comes up to you, the one who
has the hammer at his side after retrieving it
from the last person, goes, "Hey all right, are
"you willing to play some Titan's Grasp, eh?"
ASHLEY and LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "All right, it's five silver an entry."
LAURA: Five silver.
ASHLEY What's the prize?
MATT: "Single swing, but winner gets the current
pot. Which stands at--" and he turns to one of the
other guards who goes through a small bag and
goes, "That's going to run about 43 gold."
ASHLEY: Okay.
LAURA: Yeah!
ASHLEY: I'll give five gold. Five silver, I mean.
I'm so sorry.
MATT: "All right, one swing. You?"
LAURA: Yes, yes, yes!
MATT: "One swing for you."
TRAVIS: Two swings.
ASHLEY: Two swings? Shit, okay.
MATT: "Take as many as you want. No one's turned
it over this morning yet."
ASHLEY: All right.
TALIESIN: Can you rage at this thing when you--
ASHLEY: That's what I was going to try.
LAURA: Nice.
TRAVIS and ASHLEY: When in doubt.
MATT: "Who's going first?"
LAURA: Yasha can go first.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'll go first.
LAURA: I'm going to wait to give him my money
because I have a feeling Yasha might win. I'm
going to wait.
MATT: "Oh, I like that. Your friend's got
confidence in you. All right, big missy." Hands
you the heavy hammer. It's not too heavy in your
grasp.
TRAVIS: Come on, Yasha!
MATT: It's not very well balanced either. It's not
a battle-ready hammer, it's designed for this type
of a show experience. You get the sense this
hammer would not be the most effective for this.
It might be intentional. It's your turn, people
start gathering. You're up on an elevated two foot
platform there. They have the metal bar fulcrum,
all set beneath the stone. Hammer's in your hands,
what do you do?
ASHLEY: Okay, so I would like to rage. Ah! Just
strength?
MATT: This is a strength check, yeah. You have
advantage while you're raging. Roll twice, take
the higher, and add your strength modifier.
ASHLEY: Oof. Okay, 17.
MATT: 17. (grunts) (ringing impact) You hit the
metal bar, the stone (scraping) falls back into
rest. It's a heavy stone.
LAURA: What are we trying to do here?
MATT: The stone is resting on the lower part and
there is a fulcrum round centerpiece to it. You're
trying to hit on this end to push the stone to
roll over. It moved slightly and falls back into
place. "Good try! That was very strong there,
lass. Don't worry."
ASHLEY: Well, I have another go.
MATT: "Well pay another."
ASHLEY: I did. I gave you ten.
MATT: "Oh you did? Tell me this when you're
counting this, bud. Go ahead, second swing."
TALIESIN: You get another swing, yeah.
MATT: You get advantage while raging, so--
ASHLEY: 24.
TRAVIS and LAURA: Ooh!
MATT: You pull back, and the one guy is looking
over to one of the mates on the side and starts
laughing. Suddenly (impact) (scraping) (larger
impact). The stone shifts, slams on to the other
side. All four of them go (gasp).
(cheering)
LAURA: Yasha!
MATT: Now suddenly the crowd around, that you
didn't notice gathering, start cheering: "Yay!"
Looks over to the one guard who had the pouch,
"Okay then, congratulations."
ASHLEY: Thank you.
MATT: Hands it over.
ASHLEY: Can I count it?
MATT: Yeah go for it. You take a moment to count
through, while staring at him. It comes out to
roughly about 43 gold worth of silver, including
the ten silver that you put into it. Or not
including the ten silver, so in addition to that.
It would be 44 gold worth but it's mostly silver pieces.
ASHLEY: Oh shit, how much--
LIAM: About seven feet away, out of habit, Caleb
just went: (counting).
LAURA: That will buy us so many candied apples.
MATT: All the guards go over and shift the stone
back over onto the fulcrum. They pull in and bring
out about a gold piece each, to throw five gold
back into the pot. They go, "All right, back up.
"Who wants in?"
ASHLEY: She's next.
LAURA: Oh, well all right. Five gold is-- all
right.
TRAVIS: I'll toss in a gold piece just to make it
interesting.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, no, I'll do that when I see you
going in.
LAURA: What!? You guys.
MATT: The guards are going, "Wait, into the--"
LAURA: You're going to play, right?
TRAVIS: For the game, right?
SAM: I will take that bet. I'll bet against her.
LAURA: What?
TRAVIS: Sure.
SAM: I got one gold that says she cannot do this.
MARISHA: I'm the booker, so you pay me.
SAM: I don't think that's how that works.
LAURA: I roll for strength check?
MATT: Yup, roll a strength check, add your
strength modifier.
LAURA: Natural 20!
(cheering)
MATT: (resounding impact) As you slam down again,
the stone goes (impact). It rolls over a second time.
TRAVIS: Two in a row.
MATT: Seemingly, the fulcrum set after you knocked
it over prepared her for a better slam. As it
hits, the four soldiers of the Righteous Brand
look at each other, "We're going to take a break
"here for a second. Return here in about 30
minutes." They hand the money over to you get
five, six gold.
LAURA: Seven gold.
TRAVIS: Nott.
SAM: Here's one gold. I just wanted to fire her
up.
LAURA: Thanks, Nott. It worked.
SAM: I know.
MATT: They're going to inspect the hammer,
inspecting the fulcrum, inspecting the stone, and
they're basically in the process of wondering if
they had somehow been cheated out of this. They
can't find anything.
LAURA: I skip away.
MATT: At this point now, the smell of warm,
candied fruit begins to waft past you. You glance
over and can see there is a large cart that is
selling all sort of sweet fruit that have been
coated in sugar. Some have a sticky syrup
exterior, and there are candied apples available
for purchase. Depends on how much you guys want to
purchase, if any.
ASHLEY: I would very much-- I have never had a
candied apple before.
LAURA: You have to try them. They're so good!
SAM: You've never had a candied apple before? It
seems so basic. It's honey and an apple.
LAURA: Well, the candied apples are hard, right?
The caramel apples are softer. Do you have caramel apples?
MATT: You can see the older woman who's there, who
a little bit portly with a big smile, rosy cheeks,
pulls from behind the counter-- "They're still
cooling off." You can see a small tray that has
about six caramel covered apples that you see are
still gleaming in the little bit of light that's
coming from the cloudy sky.
LAURA: Yes. That's what I wanted!
LIAM: I haven't had one of those in such a long
time.
LAURA: I'm going to buy one for all of us.
MATT: "All right, that's going to be--"
SAM: We have to share one?
MATT: "Two copper each. For seven, that'll put you
at 14 copper."
LAURA: Okay. How much does that add up to in
silver?
TALIESIN: One silver, four copper.
LAURA: Okay. I pass it over.
MATT: "There's six caramel apples here, and you
have seven with you."
TRAVIS: It's okay. No, it gets stuck in your
teeth.
ASHLEY: I'll take the candy, because I've never
had it.
MATT: "Candy apple, all right, for you and the six
for you. (shouting) All out of caramel apples for
"the time being, but return here in an hour!"
LAURA: An hour! You have to wait because we got
all of them!
(laughter)
MATT: There's this little girl across the way
who's like--
LAURA: Aw. I cut a little slice off and give her
one little slice.
MATT: You approach, and she gets scared. As you
get closer you can see she looks a little
disheveled. Probably one of the less well-off
people of the city of Zadash. You don't see a
parental figure in the near vicinity.
LAURA: Where's your mama? Do you have a mama? Is
she around?
MATT: Just runs off.
LAURA: Oh no, I was going to give you more, but
okay. Goodbye.
SAM: Should we go after her? I can hunt her down.
LAURA: No.
LIAM: While I start to enjoy my apple, I would
like to look around and see if there are any book
stalls or book barrels.
SAM: Those festive book stalls.
TALIESIN: A barrel of books!
MATT: Go ahead and make a perception check.
SAM: Candied books, candied books!
TRAVIS: The little girl disappeared into the
crowd, or did she join a bunch of other kids?
MATT: She disappeared into the crowd.
LIAM: Perception, you said?
SAM: Throw a dart. Win a book.
LIAM: 15.
MATT: It does not appear that there is a strong
presence of tome and/or book retailers as part of
the celebration, unfortunately.
LIAM: Okay, while I was looking round, is there
anything besides games and food?
MATT: There's games. There's food. There are
celebratory tapestries in the colors of autumn.
You see small, pressed crests of the Empire that
are used to either hang over your door as a good
luck charm or to use as decor on the interior. A
lot of it's knick-knacks and general collectibles.
Most everyone out here, it's a craft fair on top
of being a celebratory-- There's a bunch of random
odds and ends that people collect or purchase to
add to their home interior.
LIAM: Huge long shot probably a no, but do I also
see anything about the Cobalt Soul here?
MATT: Glancing about, you do see the occasional
person of the Cobalt Soul robes, but they're not
selling anything here.
TALIESIN: I'm going to run up behind: Caleb, have
you run Detect Magic on any of this?
LIAM: Well, you know, I tried to do a little stuff
on the sly a little while ago and didn't work out so well.
TALIESIN: Just, there's so much. I figure
something's got to be interesting.
LIAM: Well, if you can keep eyes off of me for a
moment, I can do that if you like.
TALIESIN: I can absolutely do that. I'm going to
run towards the tapestry booth.
MATT: Okay.
(laughter)
MATT: There you can see, it's a long, thin cart
that's mainly things on display. It looks like
it's two wooden dowel rods at each side of this
booth, that all push together at the center. All
the tapestries are hung over the side on display
for the front end. There's three individuals that
are manning this booth. There isn't a whole lot of
transaction going on there. It's a little more of
a specialty item in the sense that not everyone
needs to fill their place with tapestries. They're on display.
TALIESIN: I'm seeing if there's anything deeply
gaudy.
MATT: Yes, actually. There is one that is an
insignia or an interpretation of the symbol of the
Platinum Dragon. It is silver threads among a
standard sky-blue coloring. There's several
different dragon heads that are woven into the
pattern. There's almost an embroidery. For as much
as you've known about the Platinum Dragon and the
religion, it's surprisingly gaudy.
LIAM: I'm trailing about 40 feet behind Molly.
TALIESIN: That's beautiful. How much is that,
then?
MATT: One of the people running the booth,
quickly, as you see a mid-30s, half-elf man with a
bit of chin scruff and very short hair, leans
around the corner and goes, "Oh, for the Platinum
"Dragon. This one was handcrafted by me and my
mate, over the period of about two months. Hand
"embroidered. Very difficult. Very exquisite. For
the entire piece, the central piece you're
"inquiring about, that'll run you about ten gold
pieces. We have smaller, almost doily-sized
"renditions of it back here."
TALIESIN: How big is this piece, out of
curiosity?
MATT: He takes the back and unfolds it entirely
but can't quite get the full arm length to get up
there. He's like, "This one's about six and a
half, seven feet from top to bottom. Can be used
"as a rug, should you be so inclined and you aren't
quite a fan of the Platinum Dragon and want him
"beneath your feet--"
TALIESIN: It's purchased. Ten gold? My god.
MATT: "Right away!" He takes it, begins folding it
up with one of his other compatriots. They take
the twine and manage to fasten it in three
places.
TALIESIN: Bless you, master craftsmen! My god. It
is such a rendition of the Platinum Dragon that
I've never seen before. I clutch at my Platinum
Dragon brooch. It's beautiful.
MATT: He says, "We're happy to bring joy to you
and the house of your great deity." They hand you
this relatively massive tapestry that's almost
seven feet end to end.
TALIESIN: Oh, I have fucking plans, people! Swing
it over my shoulder, and I'll be walking around
like a pike.
MATT: As this is happening, you see that there are
two other games. You're now seeing the central
space here. You've walked past this structure.
It's this small, forum-like circular stone
building that's been emptied and closed. Now
there's crowds walking in and out the front
doorway, and around it are where a lot of these
games are set up. You do see one that has a big
banner that says Eagle Shot. There is one large,
central platform where it looks like this is where
a lot of public presentations are given here in
the Pentamarket. It's currently set up with a
central table and a number of members of the
Righteous Brand, as well as one that is a very
well-adorned human male with brown hair that's
pulled up into a topknot. He has a big, thick
beard. Looks like a handsome fellow and he's
currently barking out something about the
military. You're too far away to make out the
details of it. That one has a wooden carved sign
that says Soldier's Spirit. It's currently put on
the edge of the stage.
LAURA: Where in relation to all of this is the
Hearth of the Allhammer? Because I know it's in
the Pentamarket.
MATT: The Hearth of the Allhammer would be on the
other side of this large, forum-like structure.
SAM: I'm going to walk over to the Eagle Shot, was
it?
MATT: Eagle Shot, yes.
SAM: What's that game look like?
MATT: As you approach, there are two crownsguard
that are helming a small, compact archery range.
There's a series of trees that are at the very
back that mark what would normally be an alcove in
this small park, but within this alcove there are
three archery targets that are slightly off from
each other at different distances. They have a
rack with different bows and a whole cache of
arrows that are set to the side.
MARISHA: (laughter) I'm just standing there like,
what?
SAM: Bows? Nah.
LAURA: You could do it!
SAM: It's too hard to pull it back! This thing
does it for you, look. (click)
LAURA and MARISHA: Maybe they'll let you use it.
SAM: I guess I could go ask. Excuse me, sir or
madam?
MATT: The first guard turns around. "Oh, little
girl, good to see you. What can I help you with?"
SAM: I'm wondering if you have to use a bow and
arrow to compete or can you use one of these?
MATT: "What do you-- " Which, you still have a
bolt nocked in this hand crossbow. He's like, "Put the-- "
SAM: I'm not going to fire it at you! I don't have
anything wrong with it.
MATT: "Little miss, you shouldn't be waving that
around in public. I'm not sure how you got a hold
"of that. Where's your mother?"
SAM: My father is over there.
LIAM: Did you want to play this game?
SAM: Yes, papa.
MATT: "Unfortunately, by the rules you have to use
one of the provided bows."
SAM: This one is pretty good.
MATT: "Please put-- sir, your daughter is a danger
to the general public right now."
LIAM: No, she is an excellent shot. She's
trained.
MATT: "Well, she has not been trained proper use
of that in a space in which is it safe for other
"people to be around. I'm just saying."
LIAM: Sure. How much to play your game?
MATT: "Could I see that for a second?"
LIAM: My daughter's crossbow, you want?
MATT: Takes it, the crossbow, and pulls the string
back, removes the tension, hands it back. "There.
"Would either of you like to play some Eagle Shot?"
Behind them, somebody like--
SAM: Now I feel like we have to. He just
human-splained me.
(laughter)
MATT: The other guard behind is currently setting
up an older woman who is in the process of getting
the arrow lined up, and it keeps falling out of
her grip and the other guard's like, "No, put it
"here," and getting ready. Finally fires an arrow
and it goes and disappears past one of the trees,
"Oh, no!"
LIAM: Well, you know, I'll tell you something. If
you want to have a laugh, let's have me do some
physical sports, so that should be pretty good.
SAM: That'll be fun. All right, let's do it. We
will both enter your competition.
MATT: "Very well. That's one silver piece for
three shots. Closest bullseye, if acquired, you
"get a rat from a cage." He pulls off from the side
here; you see a small stack of wicker cages with
rats inside them. "Get yourself a pet rat. If you
go ahead and get that middle bullseye, about part
"way across that range, there, you win yourself one
of these finely crafted wooden swords." They have
this decently whittled wooden sword. The center
cross hilt for it is strapped with twine tightly.
Swings it a couple times and sets it down, lays it
against and it rests and hits the ground off to
the side. "Now the farthest one over there--" and
you watch as the old woman pulls another shot and
it almost hits the far target before it gets stuck
in the tree about ten feet behind it, "Hit that
"one way back there and that one will get you
this." He pulls up a haphazard, stitched doll with
button eyes, like the stitches are too wide so it
looks like the crosses behind it are visible.
There's no mouth. There's like, matted twine hair,
some felt-like material that's made a crown and a
cape. "Of our fine King Bertrand Dwendal."
LIAM: Just a question for you. Should I hit the
one in the back, which is highly likely, could we
have the doll's weight in rats instead?
MATT: He gives you a look like you said a bad
word. He goes, "I suppose."
SAM: How far is the farthest one?
MATT: He glances back. "It's probably about 80
feet."
SAM: Let's try.
MARISHA: Nott, I really want that wooden sword.
SAM: You don't have a sword, do you?
TRAVIS: Creepy little doll, man!
MARISHA: Don't listen to Fjord.
LAURA: Get the doll. I bet it's cursed!
SAM: I can't work with this kind of pressure!
MARISHA: Nott. If you get that sword, I'll give
you my jade bracelet.
SAM: Oh man!
LIAM: Is this an attack roll?
MATT: It is an attack roll, and it's a short bow.
He said about 80 feet, but the farthest one's
about 100 feet. Which means it is in its second
range increment, so the one in the back is at disadvantage.
SAM: I'm not proficient in this thing at all,
right?
MATT: Well, let's go ahead and see. Rogue
proficiencies. It's a simple ranged weapon. You
should be. I'm pretty sure you are. Yep, simple
weapons. You are proficient with the short bow.
"Who's going first, if you don't mind me asking?"
LIAM: Let me show my daughter how it is done.
MATT: "Of course, understood." Hands you one of
the short bows off of the side and three arrows.
They're all right in their construction.
LIAM: Watch my form and technique. I pick up the
bow, and I take the stick thing. I pull it back like this.
MATT: "Oh-- I--"
LIAM: Yeah?
MATT: "No, continue."
LIAM: (sneezes)
MATT: Which target are you aiming for?
LIAM: The farthest one, obviously.
MATT: The farthest? All right, with disadvantage.
Add your dexterity modifier.
LIAM: Oh.
MATT: I do not think you're proficient--
LIAM: Aww, no, not at all. That is a three.
MATT: Well, as a wizard, you might be, actually.
For simple weapons.
Nope. No, you are not.
TALIESIN: Is it just simple weapons, or is it
simple ranged weapons?
MATT: Well, it's simple ranged weapons, but those
count as simple weapons.
TALIESIN: Simple weapons, okay.
MATT: It gets about 40 or so feet before it gets
stuck in the dirt. He's like, "That was good."
LIAM: Hmm. The fretching on that one was
probably not very good. Let me try again.
SAM: I think it's fletch-- yeah.
LIAM: Listen, I have read a lot of books. I know
it is fretching.
MATT: You nock your secondary arrow. Take a shot.
LIAM: Nope. Dang it. The second rolls are always
really good! That is an eight.
MATT: This one gets about five feet further and
almost hits a squirrel. You hear (squeaking), and
it darts off into a nearby bush.
LAURA: You could have got your own prize!
SAM: One more shot. You can do this!
LIAM: This is not well-crafted. I grab my wire
that I use for the message spell, and I put my
hair into a little ponytail.
LAURA: You shouldn't use wire to do that, Caleb.
MARISHA: It damages your hair.
LIAM: (pew) Okay. Oh no. Ten.
MATT: This one gets 40 feet, which is halfway
there, before it hits the ground and sticks into
the dirt. As soon as it finishes, there's like a,
"That was good. Go fetch that." The other guard
runs out and grabs the arrows to retrieve them.
LIAM: Full disclosure: I have no athletic ability.
That went as well as I expected it to.
MATT: "That is surprising. Well, a fine Harvest
Close to you, friend, and for your daughter."
SAM: Yes, it's my turn.
MATT: Hands the bow over, and a set of three
arrows.
LAURA: He's going with the dice jail dice! You
should not have done that.
SAM: Do I add proficiency and--
MATT: Proficiency and your dex mod.
SAM: 11.
MATT: This one arcs. It almost gets near the
target, but ends up veering off to the right and
ends up vanishing behind one of the secondary
targets near the tree. He says, "Yeah, that was
"better than your father."
SAM: What is that? 12.
MATT: This one hits the actual base of the far
target. Misses the target entirely, but it hits
the actual plank of wood that's holding it up.
MARISHA: See, the beads have a little bit of like,
gold embossing, etching inside of them.
SAM: Far target. 15.
MATT: It hits the bottom of the target. No
bullseye, but you hit it. He's like, "That was
"actually very good."
SAM: Shut up! I don't need you to condescend to
me! Give me another one!
MATT: "Right away, little missy." Grabs three more
arrows.
LIAM: I slap down the silver for it.
SAM: Thank you!
LIAM: Yeah. It was two, right?
MATT: One silver for three shots.
LIAM: I put down two silver.
MATT: Six more shots, all right. "There you go."
LAURA: She won't need six more shots.
SAM: Two, in quick succession. 20.
MATT: As you pull back, perfect bullseye into the
farthest target. There's this brief pause as the
guard spins around and goes, "What-- "
SAM: I'm not done! I get four more shots! Two in
quick succession to the middle one.
TALIESIN: Is it still disadvantage to the middle
target?
MATT: Middle one is not at disadvantage.
SAM: Oh, well then. Should I reroll? Okay. I will
still use your shitty dice. Two 23s.
MATT: Both arrows-- we're talking, like, Disney
Robin Hood-style, one arrow, next one splits the
first arrow. The guard's still recovering from the
first bullseye, he's like, "What?!"
SAM: Then two more. To the short one. 16 and a
21.
MATT: Both hit at the same time. The guard looks
slowly over towards you. "Well done."
LIAM: Now go home and get your fucking shinebox.
MATT: "Here's your doll."
TALIESIN: And the sword?
MATT: "Two swords."
LAURA: Two swords!
ASHLEY: I thought it was the rats--
MATT: "Two rats."
LAURA: Double rats!
ASHLEY: Double rats, yeah. That's it? Because I
thought that was dinner. We have--
TALIESIN: We're not eating the rats.
LAURA: We'll find some other dinner, Yasha.
ASHLEY: It's my favorite.
MATT: You now have in your inventory: two rats in
rat cages, two wooden swords--
SAM: You can have both wooden swords.
MARISHA: Oh, thanks!
TRAVIS: Yasha, do you eat rat a lot?
MATT: A hand-stitched doll of King Bertrand
Dwendal.
LAURA: That's a really good doll.
SAM: Oh, it really is. Would you like the rats?
ASHLEY: Well, were you going to eat one?
SAM: Well, we can share.
TRAVIS: Alive, or do you cook it?
ASHLEY: No, I like to have it cooked. It falls off
the bone. It's like a nice--
SAM: Oh, I can wait. I guess.
LIAM: It really depends on what you have at your
disposal. Yeah?
SAM: Later. It'll be a celebratory-- we could
candy them.
LAURA: Or caramel them!
ASHLEY: Let's try it.
LAURA: Can I start to wander away towards the
Allhammer?
MARISHA: Look, guys. I'm Molly. Look! I want to go
over to the military booth.
SAM: Don't cut yourself!
MATT: While this is happening, Jester, you make
your way around the large forum, and there you see
the Hearth of the Allhammer. You've passed it
before, and you can see it's the domed, iron
structure. It's been left to rust a bit at the
edges. The tops of the dome are polished where
it's easily accessible, but the very peak of the
dome is a little bit red, brown, rusted. There are
a number of open arches in the inside, and you see
the large, central forge that marks the center of the temple.
LAURA: Is there a statue of the Allfather? The
Allhammer guy?
MATT: You do see the large anvil that marks there
has the symbol of the Allfather printed on each
side and acts as both a ceremonial anvil for the
creation of religious artefacts and items as part
of worship and as the central statue for worship
itself. That is the closest thing there is in this
temple to a central focus of worship.
TRAVIS: Nott, be real careful with that doll; they
put little spirits of kids in those.
LAURA: Is there any guards around or are they
mostly gone because of the celebration?
MATT: It's not busy on the inside because right
now everyone's focus is on the actual celebration.
There are three individuals that are manning the
interior of the temple, one of which is the
herald. Each temple in the city has a herald
that's the keeper of that temple. It's a female
dwarf, dark brown hair and three long braids that
trail past to the middle back with a chainmail
robe on that descends past the knees and is
currently sitting on a bench and eating dried meat
out of a small pouch and people watching as people
walk by the temple. Nobody's in there actively
worshipping at the moment.
LAURA: I go inside.
SAM: Burn the place down.
MATT: Do you go in trying to avoid attention or
are you announcing yourself as you arrive?
LAURA: No. I'm going to casually walk in. Just,
you know.
MATT: As you walk in, a voice in the corner from
the direction of where the herald was goes, "Miss,
"if you need something, don't be afraid to let me
know. We're just sitting around."
LAURA: Thank you.
MATT: "Of course."
LAURA: Oh, I should have disguised myself first. I
leave. Go literally right around the corner and
disguise myself, and I come right back in.
MATT: What do you disguise yourself as?
LAURA: I cast Disguise Self as an old woman-- oof,
who just burped?
MATT: You?
LAURA: No, it wasn't me. With like a really tight
bun and little teeny glasses and a cane. I guess I
can't make myself have a cane, can I?
MATT: No, that's not an extension of--
LAURA: All right, well I walk kind of hunched
over.
MATT: Okay. As you come around the corner and make
your way in, you saunter in the far end of the
temple through one of the arches that marks the
interior, come in through the shadow and the
herald once again goes, "If you need something,
right over here."
LAURA: (grumbling)
MATT: "All right, that's fine." Goes back to--
(chuckles) already seems taken aback by your
presence. What do you want to do?
LAURA: Is there anybody in there? Nobody's in
there?
MATT: Well, I mean, there's people in there.
LAURA: (whispered) Oh, shit.
MATT: There's the herald who's sitting in the back
eating on the opposite end of the anvil and
there's two other folks that are on the outskirts
of the arches, looking out into the crowd, just
people watching.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to walk around to the back
end of the anvil and act like I'm praying, but I'm
going to wait until it looks like they're all
looking the other direction.
MATT: As you begin to pray, the two others that
are on the outside, who've noticed you enter,
their attention doesn't wander to you for too long
before they go back out to the celebration, people
walking by and people watching in general. You're
on the opposite side of the anvil from the herald
who's still chewing on her meat. What do you want
to do?
LAURA: I would like to get my paint set out and
paint pink hearts all over the back side of the
anvil along with "The Traveler was here". Then I'm
going to leave a couple travel brochures for the
Traveler. Yeah, I think that's good but they're
sizeable hearts. I want nice pretty pink, all over
the hammer. The anvil.
MATT: Just for the sake of presentation because
you're doing this with a bit of haste, knowing
that you're under pressure. Go ahead and roll a
performance check.
LAURA: Okay. With a pink dice. That's pretty good.
18.
MATT: 18. As you quickly begin to finish this
heart, Traveler was here, you hear (yawning)
across the way from the herald. You stop for a
second-- no reaction. Continue going. You finish
up the art piece. One of the other guardians of
the temple begins to turn around and walk back
towards the herald and you pull back for a moment,
but they turned away from you and it seems that
you've managed to go this far without being
noticed. You finish up your last heart, the
exclamation point and the underline of the
Traveler.
LAURA: Oh, and I'm going to take some sequins off
of my sequins glove and sprinkle it on there.
MATT: (tinkling)
LIAM: A little granny painting furiously.
MATT: Just (straining). You put the pamphlets
there on the side, slip them beneath the offering
bowl at the base of it.
LAURA: I want one sitting right on top of the
anvil. Then I'm going to leave.
MATT: Make a sleight of hand check on that one.
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: Because that will be creeping into the view
of the herald.
LAURA: 11.
MATT: As you place it on top, the voice on the
opposite end goes, "Do you need help there?
"Dearie?"
LAURA: (quavering) Oh, no, just leaving a little
message for my son here. He's a big worshipper.
Ah. I walk away.
MATT: As you get up and start walking away, the
herald stands up and begins walking towards the
other side of the anvil.
LAURA: I walk really quickly.
MATT: There's like speedily running granny into
the crowd and as you get--
LAURA: Drop disguise.
MATT: Drop disguise-- in the middle of the crowd?
LAURA: Well, no, I zoom around the corner.
MATT: Still in your disguise as you're charging
into the crowd, behind you, you hear a voice
(scream). "That old woman! Find her!" There's
screaming and you hear this ruckus as people
around start looking behind at the shouting sound
as you dart around the corner. Drop disguise and
as you do, you can now see the herald and the two
keepers of the temple are now pushing through the
crowd, looking, searching like, "Has anyone seen
an old woman?" Is describing you as best they can
and it looks like there's a bit of commotion going
on. As you begin to disperse into the crowd,
making your way--
LAURA: I take a bite of my caramel apple, and I go
walking down.
MATT: You hear a crunch sound and your hand shakes
for a second and you look down and a mysterious
secondary bite was taken out of the apple.
LAURA: (gasp) I lick the spot.
(groaning)
SAM: You're making out with your god? Gross.
MATT: They have a special relationship. While this
is happening, you head to the military stand, you
said? Anybody going with Beau?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll go.
TALIESIN: I also follow.
MATT: You guys approach at this point towards the
Soldier Spear. You see this larger platform in the
middle of the Pentamarket. There you see the
central military figures wearing ornamental armor
with a top knot. There is a table set up there
with these benches and you can see there are two
burly men, one who is this hairy, heavy thick
woodsman type who is wearing a leather apron and--
SAM: A Sam Riegel-type.
MATT: Yes, exactly. He's like super butch. Hand
clasped with a trained soldier who's wearing
elements of the Righteous Brand armor but has
taken bits of it off and they're both going
(grunting). They're in the middle of an arm
wrestling match and they're both tensing back and
forth (grunting) before the brawny guy slams the
soldier's arm down to the table. He goes
(yelling). The crowd around goes (cheering).
There's a shout and cheer and the gentleman in the
center goes, "That was well done. Well done and
congratulations to you. Now that you've proven
"yourself my friend, would you be interested at all
in joining the Righteous Brand? Being a strong
"warrior in his own right," and the guy's like,
"Ah, piss off! I don't want to." He goes like,
"It's a good wage. Gold per day. Fed. All the
equipment you need. You help keep the Empire safe.
"No? All right, very well. Anyone else?"
MARISHA: Yeah, what's up?
MATT: "Well, we are having a contest to see who
here is the strongest."
MARISHA: Cool. Who's the strongest?
MATT: "Well, so far, it's that gentleman." Points
over to the heavy, burly fellow who's off to the
side. He's currently flexing and cracking his
wrist.
MARISHA: If you win, do you have to stick around
and arm wrestle a whole bunch of people because
you're suddenly the best? I don't want to dedicate
more time to this.
MATT: "I mean, you don't have to."
MARISHA: Do I still get to be the best though if
this guy sticks around and just keeps going?
MATT: "Probably, but don't be surprised if other
contenders start following you around the town to
"try and take your title."
LIAM: This is like the King of Kong.
MARISHA: Is this really that important to you
guys? Yeah.
MATT: "Not to us, but it's a fun place to display
your skill and talent. Plus, we're always looking
"for some fine young soldiers to come and join us
out there on the fields. To take down the
"Xhorhasian evils and keep all these fine folks
here well taken care of."
MARISHA: For a gold a day?
MATT: "Yeah."
MARISHA: Buying people's loyalty for a gold a
day?
TRAVIS: Wow.
MARISHA: Sorry, I just-- all right. (sighs) Heard
something about a Victory Pit. Is this the Victory Pit?
SAM: She's the worst.
MATT: He goes, "No, you're not--" Points over and
that large forum building, that circular forum
building that you saw that now the crowd's
starting to wash into that had been closed off
previous weeks, he goes, "That, that is the
Victory Pit. That will be happening in a few
"hours, but you're welcome to compete here if
you're feeling so feisty."
MARISHA: Yeah, sure.
MATT: "What's your name?"
MARISHA: Beau.
MATT: "Ah. Recruiter Leopold Wanstiker. Pleasure
to meet you."
MARISHA: Person Beau. Nice to meet you. What is
it? Leopold Sydney?
MATT: Recruiter Leopold Wanstiker.
W-A-N-S-T-I-K-E-R.
MARISHA: Wang stacker. All right.
(laughter)
MATT: So.
TRAVIS: This is top knot dude?
MATT: Top knot guy, yep.
LIAM: That's the wang.
MATT: "Whoever wins this, gets to go up against
our finest solder who should be back from his
"lunch break here in the next ten minutes or so. We
have the new challenger Beau. Let's see." He
points over to the grizzled-looking beastly man
who's currently chugging down the final bits of a
tankard of ale. Spins around, wipes it off his
beard and stands up. "Yeah, I'm coming." He gets
up onto the edge of the stage and goes, "Well,
this is Kendall."
(laughter)
MATT: "He's a strong fellow. Good luck." He sits
down.
MARISHA: I'm going to fail this miserably.
MATT: Sits down at his stool, puts his meaty arm
out with the fingers and goes--
MARISHA: Good to meet you, Kendall.
MATT: "Sure."
MARISHA: Ugh, it's sweaty.
MATT: It is sweaty.
TRAVIS: Calm your mind. Just steel your mind.
MARISHA: Oh, god.
MATT: Leopold goes, "One, two, three!" Go ahead
and make a strength check.
MARISHA: Oh, god, just--
LIAM: Those knuckle hairs are like fly legs.
MARISHA: Just a check?
MATT: Yep. Just a d20, add your strength
modifier.
LIAM: Oh.
MARISHA: Five.
MATT: Five. At that center point, you immediately
begin to give to his grasp. You see this slight
grin begin to curl underneath his wiry beard as
his arm begins to push you close to the edge of
the table. Make another strength check.
TRAVIS: Dig in!
MARISHA: A critter gave me this. They said it was
lucky. It's not that lucky. 12.
MATT: 12. With that (slams) onto the table. You
lose.
MARISHA: Ow!
MATT: Knuckles a little bruised from the slam. He
gets up and is like, "Ha!"
TALIESIN: That was worth following around for.
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: Ah.
TRAVIS: Thought you were going to beat him.
MARISHA: I'm very slippery, I'm not-- I want to do
that Victory Pit thing, though.
MATT: "Well done though, Beau. Well done. Here."
He hands you a small piece of parchment that's
rolled up and goes, "This is information about, if
you'd be so interested, in coming and joining the
"Righteous Brand."
SAM: Audition for our acapella group.
TALIESIN: Kingsman.
MATT: "You can find us at the Marrow Keeps of the
Righteous Brand on the outskirts of the northern
"end of Zadash, should you be so interested."
TRAVIS: Marrow Keeps?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: We've heard of that before.
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
MATT: This is in the area of the Signet Wall which
is the military district of the city.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: "Anyone else?" Another gentleman raises his
hand and gets up on stage and they begin to do a
showdown. The two of them begin to go back and
forth. However, that same beastly figure, Kendall,
still manages to, defeat the guy and send him to
the table, get up again and "Ha!" Then at some
point, shortly thereafter, Leopold goes, "Ah, he
returns! He returns! (chuckling) Gunther Prast,
"our finest soldier here in the city, would like to
challenge the current standing contender." You
watch now as this massive behemoth of a man, like
the Mountain from Game of Thrones, about seven
foot, 350 pounds guy wearing the Righteous Brand
silver and red armor, gets up onto the stage
(heavy steps). Clean-shaven, except for this
perpetual five o'clock shadow that doesn't seem to
leave his square jaw, his hair is trimmed super
short and you see the receding hairline curling
back into a widow's peak. Sits on the table, puts
his arm out there and you can see the huntsman,
Kendall, for the first time, lose his cool. You
watch as the two of them grasp together and
they're going to begin to roll off.
TRAVIS: Yes.
LAURA: What's going on?
SAM: Beau lost.
LAURA: Beau lost at arm wrestling?
MATT: You watch as the hands tighten and with
that, Gunther begins to twist the arm, further
down, further down. You can see, the huntsman
character is starting to grimace.
TRAVIS: Come on, Gunther.
MATT: However, pushes it back in the center. Now
they're currently neck and neck. Once again,
Gunther pushes him back. And with that final hit.
Wham! Kendall is taken out, like, (groaning).
Grasps his hand and rubs his fingers, and darts
off the stage, seemingly shamed in front of a
crowd of people. Everyone's like, "Oh!" There's
now probably about 30-40 people who watched that
last match.
LAURA: Go Gunther!
ASHLEY: Which one did you do the arm wrestling
with, Beau?
TRAVIS: Have we met Gunther before? Is he human?
MATT: He looks human. He's just huge.
TALIESIN: You should take a shot at that.
ASHLEY: Are you going to take a shot at this,
Fjord?
TRAVIS: (coughing) Me?
MARISHA: Yeah, you're stronger than me, right?
LAURA: You're very big and strong, Fjord!
SAM: No, he's really not.
TRAVIS: Yeah. You know.
TALIESIN: At the very least, you have a lot to
prove.
LIAM: Caleb is going to sneak off while everybody
is involved with this.
TRAVIS: It's not good to arm wrestle 30 minutes
after eating a caramel apple.
MARISHA: Oh, I never heard that one before.
SAM: Yasha, you should do it. You're very strong.
LAURA: Mm-hmm. You had a candied apple. You should
be fine.
ASHLEY: Extra strong? Because of the candied
apple.
TRAVIS: Your rat diet.
ASHLEY: I mean, Beau is-- No, he didn't.
TRAVIS: No, I mean, from in your past.
ASHLEY: Oh.
TRAVIS: Good constitution. Yeah, come on. Let them
know.
LAURA: Do it, Yasha!
ASHLEY: Are you doing any more of the wrestling
with the arms?
MATT: Leopold is looking over the crowd, goes,
"Would you like to try your hand at our finest warrior?"
ASHLEY: Sure.
MATT: "Come on up, Miss--"
ASHLEY: (whispers) Yasha.
MATT: "Miss (whispers) Yasha. (regular volume)
Miss Yasha, our new--"
(cheering)
MATT: The crowd begins to cheer as you step up
onto the stage. Everyone begins to gather up
around the space, filling in the outskirts. You
can see all these faces looking up at you,
bright-eyed and eager to either watch you get
destroyed or destroy. Gunther, who is currently
standing with his arms crossed sees you approach.
He's a good, over a foot taller than you, and
looks down as you walk towards the table. "Hmm.
All right."
ASHLEY: Hello.
MATT: "Hello." Sits down, puts his elbow on the
table with a heavy slam.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Grasps you. Both your arms--
LAURA: (yelling) Use your feminine wiles!
TALIESIN: Oh, I wouldn't-- Oh.
ASHLEY: I shake my hair a little.
TRAVIS: Yasha, don't hold back.
MATT: He's taking a moment and looking you over,
like he's studying something.
ASHLEY: I try not to make eye contact.
MATT: He's trying to make eye contact. Moving
around.
ASHLEY: I'm looking down and putting my hair down.
Away.
LAURA: (yelling) Her hair's so beautiful. Woo!
SAM: I don't think that's helping.
TRAVIS: Don't look at him.
SAM: It's not a beauty contest.
MATT: As Leopold is talking up this whole this
whole, "All right, come watch now! Here is our
"finest--" and it fades away in the background as
Gunther, who's leaning forward now, says
"Interesting styling. I've seen it before."
ASHLEY: What do you mean?
MATT: "You're not from around here, are you?"
ASHLEY: Well, neither are you. What does that have
to do with anything?
MATT: "Nothing. Just an observation. I've been on
the front lines long enough." With that, Leopold
walks up and goes "Three, two--" Make a strength
check with advantage, because he wasn't expecting it.
(cheering)
ASHLEY: Natural 20.
MATT: Natural 20. No joke. No joke. Right there.
SAM: Dueling natural 20s? Their arms rip off.
Blood is everywhere.
LIAM: Fist of the North Star!
MATT: Beautiful. Beautiful. Mwah.
ASHLEY: This was thanks to Gil. Shit! What does
that mean?
MATT: As soon as you do that, he catches it, you
both are caught in the center here, tensing up.
The whole crowd goes "Ooh!" Everything gets really
tense and quiet as you're both flexing. At this
point now, you do make eye contact. As the anger
is built up inside you. Make another strength check.
ASHLEY: Fuck.
TRAVIS: Are you still raging?
SAM: Oh, yeah.
MATT: Well, she hasn't raged yet.
ASHLEY: Can I rage? I don't know if I can do that.
MATT: Not on this roll you can't, because you
already rolled for it. Next time you can.
ASHLEY: Okay. I'll do it on the next one. Okay.
Seven.
MATT: Seven. You feel yourself giving way, your
arm going further back towards the table. You see
this grin across his face. His breath smells of
mildewed bread and alcohol. It wafts past your
nose. Roll a strength check.
SAM: Matt, may I cast Message and send a message
to Gunther?
MATT: Gunther, yeah.
SAM: I'm going to quickly say: Kendall is getting
to second base with your wife right now! Do not
respond to this message!
(laughter)
MATT: You get to roll another strength check with
advantage.
ASHLEY: Okay. How far away is everybody from us?
MATT: They're down like two and a half, three
feet, because you guys are on a raised platform.
They're about five feet from you.
ASHLEY: Oh shit. Okay. Never mind.
SAM: Oh shit.
LAURA: With advantage!
ASHLEY: Okay, okay.
TALIESIN: You get to roll again.
MATT: Because you are raging.
ASHLEY: 21.
MATT: As he's pushing you down towards the table,
you muster up another breath of strength from
inside. With that, you push him back to the
center. You're both at even keel. Roll again.
ASHLEY: With advantage?
MATT: With advantage.
ASHLEY: This is very stressful. Okay. 21.
MATT: (grunt) He starts giving ground, the sweat
now beading across his forehead. His nostrils are
flaring. That horrible smell of his breath is
coming in bigger and more constant waves as he
starts to (grunt). He looks up from his grip, up
into your eyes once more. Roll again.
SAM and LAURA: Finish him!
ASHLEY: Okay. Oh shit. (stammering)
I can't do math right nowbecause I'm stressed. 14.
MATT: 14. He slowly brings you back up to the
center. Roll again. The crowd, each time the shift
happens, the crowd is like, "Ooh! Ah! Oh god!"
ASHLEY. Shit! Ten.
MATT: You're losing ground. You're losing ground!
Roll again.
ASHLEY: No! 14.
MATT: 14? (grunt) He rolled a seven plus five.
Right up at the center. Roll again! The crowd is
going wild right now.
ASHLEY: Oh no.
MATT: Leopold's like leaning in now, watching this
happen.
MARISHA and LAURA: (chanting) Yasha! Yasha!
ASHLEY: 17.
MATT: (grunt) Pushing him back. Roll again!
MATT: This is going back and forth, back and
forth. (laughter)
LIAM: Put him in the body bag!
MARISHA: Give him the chair!
ASHLEY: Okay.
LIAM and LAURA: Advantage!
ASHLEY: 22.
MATT: 22. He pushes you right back in the center.
Rolled an 18. You guys are right there again. At
the fulcrum point. The crowd is starting to go
completely breathless at this point. It's back and
forth. Roll again.
LAURA: One of them is going to have exhaustion
soon, I know it!
MATT: He's starting to breathe really heavy.
ASHLEY: 21.
MATT: 21. You push him back again. You can see
now, the muscles are straining and popping, the
veins are bulging. His breaths are getting
heavier, his shoulder is looking like it's almost
dislodging as he's using his torso to push against
it. Roll once more.
SAM: Jester! Should I shoot him?.
LAURA: (yelling) No! No! No! Rip his arm off,
Yasha! Don't shoot him!
ASHLEY: Okay. 19.
MATT: (grunt) (bang of arm against table)
(cheering)
MATT: He immediately stands up and starts shaking
his arm at that point.
ASHLEY: Immediately when I slam him, I get up and
walk off.
(cheering)
MATT: Leopold goes, "Amazing show. Yasha!" and he
runs up behind you and catches up to you. As you
step off the stage, he steps off with you. Goes
"I'm sorry to bother you, Yasha. That was an
"incredible-- Have you any interest in all at
joining the ranks of the Righteous Brand?"
ASHLEY: No.
MATT: "Oh. Well, think about it." He goes into the
small satchel and pulls out at rolled piece of
paper, and says "It's a fantastic thing you would
do for the Empire if everyone here-- You look like
"a fine soldier and based on your skills up there
you'd be a great help on the front line."
ASHLEY: Oh. I don't. Okay. I will take this with
me. I don't like groups of people working together
for a cause. I will take it with me. I walk away.
LAURA: Did she win anything? Did she get a prize?
MATT: Strangely enough, there is no prize for
this. There is no buy-in. It's merely for the
bragging rights of the presentation. It's a
presentory--
LAURA: (yelling) Lame!
TRAVIS: Wow.
MARISHA: Hey Yasha, check it out, I got one too.
It's a really shitty prize, though.
ASHLEY: What does it-- did you look at it yet?
MARISHA: No.
LAURA: I bet yours says, "Please don't ever
contact us again."
MARISHA: Oh, what dicks!
MATT: No, it talks about--
ASHLEY: Can you read it for me?
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: It says--
MATT: As you read it--
(laughter)
SAM: No, I think this is for Marisha.
LIAM: Do that, speak at the same time-- hear ye
hear ye.
MATT: No. It speaks of the Righteous Brand and
talks about all of the wonderful possibilities for
glory. It's housing and gear provided, it's
working in a good teamwork environment to protect
the people of the Empire. It has opportunities to
rise through the ranks and to become--
MARISHA: It's propaganda.
MATT: It talks about-- it pays one gold a day at
start, with possibility of raises from there. The
training is in Bladegarden and after a period of
training there, it's three years minimum service
in the military and then you can decide to stay or
not. It goes into a small print and says like
"desertion is illegal and brings imprisonment and
fines."
MARISHA: Oh.
TRAVIS: The ushe.
LAURA: A gold a day, that's pretty good. Right? Is
it?
MARISHA: I mean, if you're only training, they
send you to the frontline and it's questionable.
TALIESIN: I think I've literally made 200 gold
since we've met, minimum, at this point. It's been
like a week.
LAURA: I mean, we've been making a good amount.
ASHLEY: Nott, do you want mine? Just in case, if
you want to join?
SAM: I'll take it.
MATT: As you guys are having this conversation
there's a voice from the side that goes, "That was
"quite an amazing display, if I say so myself." As
you turn and look you see there's a gentleman
there who's tall, a little over six foot, very--
a gentleman, not the Gentleman.
LAURA: No, that's not what I was going for, I
wanted to know what he looks like.
MATT: He's a very strong looking human male with
ruddy, tan skin and long, jet black hair that's
braided in a single thick braid that goes past his
waist in the back. He's dressed in partial
scalemail across the chest and part of the
shoulders, a dull iron color to it that's over his
chest. You see a heavy waistband of dull gray
leather that's like a thick, almost a foot thick
piece around there and a rough-looking warhammer
that's strapped to his side and he has his arms
crossed and smiling widely at you with a very
welcoming smile. "That was impressive. That guy
"you just destroyed up there? He's kind of a
douche."
ASHLEY: I could tell.
MATT: "What's your purpose here? Are you looking
for work?"
ASHLEY Me or--?
MATT: "Yes, you."
ASHLEY: I mean, it depends on what kind of work, I
guess.
MATT: "Well, mercenary work, of course."
ASHLEY: Oh, well yeah.
MATT: "All right, well, first off, my name is
Darrow."
ASHLEY: Hello Darrow.
MATT: "What's your name? Yasha, you said?"
ASHLEY: My name is Yasha.
MATT: "All right, pleasure to meet you. Well, I am
the de facto leader of a mercenary band known as
"the Stubborn Stock. We're out of Guar on the
Menagerie Coast, but we've been hired for about a
"seven month stint so far by the Empire and it's
been paying pretty well. We've had some pretty
"good scenarios here. The retainer's been nice and
honestly, it's not bad to be paid to sit around in
"case they need us."
ASHLEY: What kind of work? It's just going out and
killing things?
MATT: "Well, when they need us. To kill things, to
hunt things down. There's a lot of business that
"they can't bring the military to and the
Crownsguard stay in the cities so they send us out
"and about. That's only if they need us."
ASHLEY: It's no contract? You can come and go as
you please if you like?
MATT: "Well, it's contract. You have to be there
for their disposal. We're stationed up in Nogvurot
"and have been for the length of this contract, but
we were able to come down for this celebration and
"it's been not too bad. It's good wage, sit around,
occasionally hunt down some criminal Xhorhasian
"terror that's come down from the mountains. It's a
pretty decent living if I say so myself and you
"look like a very capable soldier if I say,
again."
ASHLEY: Yeah. Yeah, you can say so.
MATT: "Sure. Would you be interested?"
ASHLEY: Maybe. I don't know. Do you have like a
pamphlet or something?
MATT: (laughter) "We have no pamphlet. My band of
esteemed warriors are planning to be in the
"Victory Pit later this afternoon."
LAURA: (gasps) The Victory Pit!
MATT: "We could very much use an additional
soldier of your capability."
ASHLEY: We were actually thinking of going that
way.
TRAVIS: I'm afraid she's spoken for.
MATT: He turns and looks and seemingly for the
first time notices the rest of your group. Goes
like "Oh, I'm terribly sorry, I mean no
disrespect-- hi-- but I do not understand that. I
"do not wish to step on any toes here, it was
merely a curiosity. What are you called?"
LAURA: The Mighty Nein.
SAM: To travel incognito, but--
LAURA: Just kidding.
ASHLEY: The Mighty Nein.
MATT: "The Mighty Nein. Very good."
MARISHA: We're Yasha's booker. It's like her
agency.
ASHLEY: They're all actually very, very strong and
very tough. So--
SAM: Yeah! I won this doll before!
MATT: He looks like-- "That's impressive. That's a
good find. Good on you. You know who that's
"supposed to be?"
SAM: The king or something?
MATT: "I was going to say a tiny asshole. One and
the same, really."
LAURA: Wait, I heard you say you were from
Nogvurot, yes?
MATT: "Well, we're stationed in Nogvurot, but
we're from a ways further than that."
LAURA: Did you notice any of the kids that were
missing up there?
MATT: (sighs) "That has been an occasional
problem, yes. We had been sent to investigate two
"of those instances and in all of them it seemed to
be that they were stolen-- I'm sorry, I do not
"know how much I can discuss of these with you--"
LAURA: Oh! We're really good at keeping secrets!
MATT: Make a general charisma check. Just to see
if he trusts your face.
TRAVIS: Oh boy. Do I trust your face?
LAURA: Well, let's general charisma check-- oh,
that would be a natural one there.
TRAVIS: Yeah! All right!
MATT: "We've looked into it. Do not worry. But we'll see
how long the contract goes. I do not
"know how much luck we'll have. It's kind of a dire
situation."
LAURA: Is that what you're being paid for up
there?
MATT: "One of many things."
LAURA: Wow.
ASHLEY: You said you've been fighting on the
frontlines of Xhorhas, or--
MATT: "Well, not yet. Not yet. Just the ones that
come too close in. There've been a few excursions
"into the Empire itself and that's why we're hired.
They're basically bringing everyone they can on
"hand to help keep the home fort defended."
ASHLEY: What are you fighting, if I may ask?
MATT: "What am I fighting? Right now?"
ASHLEY: Well, in Xhorhas. If you go out there.
MATT: "Oh, we haven't been to Xhorhas yet."
ASHLEY: You haven't been to Xhorhas.
MATT: "They've kept us in the Empire so far."
ASHLEY: They've kept you in the Empire.
MATT: "Yeah. They keep the army on the eastern
side, but we're meant to find things that the army
"cannot be bothered to do."
ASHLEY: I understand.
TRAVIS: You've fought in this Victory Pit before?
MATT: "No, actually. We've only really been in the
Empire for the first time this past half year and
"I've heard things about it and, you know, figured
we'd come and try it. They gave us a week off to
"come down here to Zadash, and me and my friends are
going to take our best attempt at this."
LAURA: How many people are in your group?
MATT: "Oh, well, within our person-- including
myself, a grand total of six mighty warriors."
LAURA: Whoa.
MARISHA: All six of you fight?
MATT: "All six of us have our different techniques,
yes."
LAURA: What kind of techniques, just in case,
you know, we have to fight you?
MATT: (laughter) "I'm not going to tell you, and it's
not that kind of tournament. Anyway, I do not mean
"to be a problem. If ever you change your mind--"
MARISHA: Is it the Gauntlet? Yeah, I know, what is
it?
LAURA: We have to go sign up for this.
MATT: He pulls out a copper coin that's a little larger
than a normal piece of copper and goes, "Just ask around."
He tosses it to you and you take it. It looks like
a small copper platter, coin-ish in its design, and
on it is printed the name of his group, the
Stubborn Stock.
SAM: They've got business cards? That is so cool.
LAURA: We need to get coins.
MARISHA: We need coins, yeah.
SAM: We need something.
ASHLEY: How do I-- what? Do I show it around
or--?
MATT: "Well, look for any place in a city where we
might be or might not be and see if you've heard
"of us in the vicinity. If they know where we are,
they'll bring you to us. If they don't, they will not."
LAURA: Where did you get those coins?
MATT: "One of our fellows makes them."
LAURA: You have a blacksmith in the thing?!
MATT: "Loosely." He takes it and shows it off.
It's not made that well. He goes, "It's functional
"more than it's beautiful."
ASHLEY: I think it's great, you know.
MATT: "I appreciate that."
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: "All right, anyway. We have to go prepare
for this tournament. If you're standing around,
"please come cheer us on. That would be
fantastic."
LAURA: We need to go sign up for the tournament.
SAM: Absolutely, right now.
MATT: "A pleasure to meet you, Mighty Nein!"
LAURA: You too, Darrow!
MATT: He heads off, back towards the Victory Pit.
MARISHA: Which we awkwardly go in the same
direction. It's like when you say bye and then
"Oh, are we--? Okay, we wait 30 seconds. One,
two--"
SAM: While we're waiting, can I just say, why did
we not think about branding? We should have coins,
cards, you should be writing a big nine on a wall
wherever we go! Like everywhere, just tagging it,
just everywhere!
LAURA: Why a nine though?
SAM: Because we're the Mighty Nein.
LAURA: I thought the nine meant that--
SAM: I know! They don't know that. When you say it
out loud, it's much easier that our symbol is the
number nine, don't you think?
TALIESIN: I think that if I saw lots of random
nines around the city I don't think I'd know what
that was connected to.
SAM: If you did know, then you'd be one of
the cool kids.
MARISHA: If you saw random mimes?
LAURA: I'm going to start practicing making a cool
logo for us in my sketchbook.
LIAM: I am on an errand.
MATT: What errand are you on?
LIAM: Oh, well, I'll wait until they wind down,
perhaps.
SAM: That could be a while.
LIAM: It could be a while. Well, back at the
Righteous Brand when I snuck out, would it be
possible for me to find an alleyway or somewhere
secluded so I can cast Disguise Self on myself?
Around myself, not as myself.
MATT: Yeah, a short jaunt. Not too hard to find a
darkened corner where you can do it.
LIAM: Yeah, okay. Then I would like to look
exactly like I do, however, the clothing that I'm
wearing is a shade of blue that is similar, but
not identical, to the robes that I have seen
people from the library of the Cobalt Soul. A
similar blue and very large coke bottle glasses.
My eyes go all fish-eyed. Everything else is the
same.
MATT: Okay. Easy enough to do.
LIAM: I would like to find one of those people who
was dressed like they came from that library that
I saw that day with Beauregard.
MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check as you
begin to pore through the crowd doing this. You
guys have noticed that Caleb's been gone for a
little bit.
LIAM: It's investigation, you said?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: It's a 24.
MATT: Wow, yeah. Within a very short time,
asking a few questions and looking through part of
the crowd, one of them points over to the edge of
the Pentamarket on the northern side, and over in
that direction there are two of the robe-wearing
individuals. One of the monks that works within
the archive itself and one looks to be wearing
higher up robes. You're not sure what that means
or what the ranking is within the Cobalt Soul.
LIAM: I would like to approach them.
MATT: All right, as you approach--
LIAM: Yeah. Excuse me! I'm sorry. May I trouble
you for a moment? I know this is untoward in the
middle of a festival.
MATT: The one that's in the nicer dress you can
see is apparently an elven woman. You see these
kind of long strands of blond, almost silver hair
that goes in front of the ears and the rest of the
hair falls past the shoulders. Beautiful, natural,
no makeup. Even for elven standards, you can see a
little bit of age. This is an older elf in
comparison to a lot of the brighter faces that
turns to you. "Of course, what can we help you
with?"
LIAM: Oh, yeah. Again, I am very sorry. I am a
traveling writer. I am writing a history of the
great cities of the Empire and I have heard
wonderful things about the library that is under
your stead and I don't know-- I have viewed it
from the outside, it is a beautiful structure, but
I don't know what it entails to visit it. I was
wondering, do you allow outsiders? I don't know if
it costs a fee or if you need some sort of letter
of recommendation, but I am very eager to learn
about the library itself and the city and
everything that I can learn about it so I can
write more extensive-- it would just mean so much
to me.
MATT: Make a deception check.
LIAM: It's all true, though.
MATT: Well.
LIAM: (laughs) It is a 13.
MATT: A 13? Okay. "Well, of course. It is open to
the public. You're required to come when there is
"an available monk to escort you through the
premises. Of course, you cannot take anything from
"the archive itself, but you're welcome to read
while in the presence of one of our various monks
"and/or worshippers of the Knowing Mistress."
LIAM: The entire library?
MATT: "Well, the public portions of it, yes."
LIAM: Oh, of course.
MATT: "Yes. Just need to come on a day in which
the archive is open and available, sign in, and
"you will be assigned one of our various attendees
of the archive and you will have the run of the
"public library of which to read and make notes of.
You may take your own copy of notes, but once, of
"course, it is only within the public space."
LIAM: It is far simpler than I had imagined.
MATT: "Yeah. Well, I'm glad you asked."
LIAM: Thank you so much. Forgive me, this is
forward. What is your name?
MATT: "I'm Jennah. Archivist Jennah."
LIAM: It is a pleasure. This is a different
subject almost entirely, but I was wondering, I
mean to make a stop at all the great libraries of
this city. I was wondering, is it a similar
situation at the Hall of Erudition?
MATT: "They are a little different. They maintain
their knowledge for those who are actually there
"as part of the curriculum. You'll have to speak to
the headmaster as well. They have, from what we
"know, as we are not allowed either, quite a decent
cache of arcane knowledge as well. There has been
"some sharing, but they are particular."
LIAM: What was the headmaster's name?
MATT: "That would be Ornit, I believe." Let me
double check here so I don't say it wrong. No,
that is, no, "Oremid Hass."
LIAM: Oremid Hass.
MATT: "Yes."
LIAM: Oremid Haas is running the Halls of
Erudition?
MATT: "Yes."
LIAM: Okay. Apropos of nothing, I have heard about
this tower attack. That's terrible.
MATT: "Yes, that was a bit disconcerting,
definitely. Thankfully, it is a well-defended
"tower. The Zauber Spire has stood for quite some
time and has its capabilities defending itself as
"we've seen."
LIAM: I'm amazed it did not fall.
MATT: "Well, you should ask them how they did
that. You'll know as to why they're so secretive."
LIAM: Do they accept-- oh, no, they don't accept
visitors there.
MATT: "Well, I don't know. We always go on
specific business, so you can certainly inquire. I
"haven't attempted to go from the standpoint of a
possible student, but you could ask."
LIAM: Well, I have taken up enough of your time.
MATT: "That is all right."
LIAM: I'd like to say thank you. Have a wonderful
festival.
MATT: "Of course. You as well. Happy Harvest
Close."
LIAM: I turn a corner and fucking book it.
MATT: As you return to the rest of the group, you
guys are met by a strangely adorned Caleb with an
interesting ensemble.
LAURA: Got some new specs there.
LIAM: What do you mean?
ASHLEY: What did you just get up to?
MARISHA: New robes, too.
LIAM: I was sightseeing.
TRAVIS: Oh.
LAURA: Do you need those and we never knew?
LIAM: Where are we right now?
MATT: You guys are on the outside of the Victory
Pit. The crowds are starting to swarm into a
central archway that's open.
LIAM: Are they all around us or are we off to the
side?
MATT: Right now you are in part of the crowd as
the people are rushing past.
LIAM: Okay, so I lean down to tie my shoe and let
the cloak fall around me, and I get down between
Yasha and Fjord, and when I come up everything is
back to normal.
LAURA: Your glasses fell off when you were bent
over.
LIAM: It gives me a headache, so I took them off.
TRAVIS: Where were you at?
LIAM: Exactly what I was saying. I was
sightseeing, I was asking about their libraries of
the city.
TRAVIS: Lots of them around here?
LIAM: Not so many.
MARISHA: Cobalt's a good color on you.
LIAM: What?
MARISHA: You look good in blue.
LIAM: (sniffs)
TRAVIS: Okay, shall we go into the Victory Pit?
LAURA: Yeah, let's sign up!
MATT: You guys gather your strength, your
interest, your nerve. You go in with the rest of
the crowd that is now beginning to gather towards
the front end of the Victory Pit. As you step
towards the central archway into the shaded
interior of the main entryway, we're going to take
a break! We'll be back here in a few minutes to
pick up to this tournament and all that it entails.
SAM: Aw, man. What a festival!
LAURA: What a festival!
MATT: Tonight as part of our Wyrmwood giveaway, we
have a bocote tabletop dice tray from our friends
at Wyrmwood. Very fancy leather interior, it's
very pretty.
LAURA: Aren't those the same kind--
MATT: That is, actually yes. You can have Jester's
dice box, kind of. Tonight, the keyword is
"celebration." If you'd like to, come into the
Twitch chat and enter the word "celebration" to
become part of the drawing, as long as you are in
the US and Canada outside of Quebec, otherwise you
cannot enter. I am very sorry, laws are weird.
Enter it only once. Any more than that and you may
be disqualified. We will come back at the end of the
break with a winner to be announced. Until then,
we'll see you guys here in a few minutes.
[break]
MATT: You guys are so slow on the draw tonight.
Welcome back, everybody. Before we get kicked back
in, we have our winner of the Wyrmwood giveaway
tonight which is mumbly_joe1212. Congratulations!
Danoba will get your information if he hasn't
already, and we'll get that shipped out to you.
Congrats. Diving back in, folks. You have muscled
your way through the crowd, making your way into
the shaded interior of the front portion, the
receiving chamber of the Victory Pit, this
two-leveled circular forum-like structure in the
center of the Pentamarket. You push in the crowd,
and people are starting to find each other and
push away to find seats into some of the openings
that lead off to the sides in the center. There is
a pedestal with a barker or an organizer up there
in a long dark gray and brown set of robes, a
human male in his late 50s who's fighting his own
age and losing. The comb-over thinning hair and a
broom-like gray mustache that's poorly colored
with dark wax. He's shouting out to the crowd, he
says, "Please enter slowly, the event begins
"shortly in the next few hours. Would you push
aside-- (muttering) Yes, right! This way, please,
"but go evenly!" He's pushing off two different
directions. What are you guys doing?
LAURA: Should we go in, then? Yes?
TALIESIN: Oh, I think we are.
LAURA: Is this where we go if we're going to
fight?
MATT: "I'm sorry? The fights will be soon."
LAURA: How do we be one of the fights?
TRAVIS: Yeah, we'd like to enroll in the
competition.
MATT: "Oh, you wish to enter?"
TRAVIS: Yes.
MATT: "Oh, entry may have already been closed."
LAURA: Oh no, we're real good! You definitely want
us to be in this. We put on a real good show!
MATT: "Let me ask." He turns around and steps off
of his pedestal and heads to this wooden door.
It's about ten feet behind and he shoves through,
closes behind him and slams. A few moments pass
and people begin filtering through still, pushing
past you and bumping you in the shoulders.
MARISHA: Hey, what do you think that dude meant
when he said it wasn't like a normal fight?
LAURA: I don't know. I wonder how experienced
these fighters are? Do you think it's stupid that
we're signing up for it without knowing much?
SAM: Yes, very.
LIAM: I'm also curious. Is it a bare-knuckles
thing, or is no-holds-barred do whatever you want?
MARISHA: Maybe it's an obstacle course, you know,
Ninja Warrior style.
TRAVIS: Maybe it's like a cook-off.
TALIESIN: I'd be all right with that.
LAURA: A cook-off, that is true. It could be.
MARISHA: Maybe we all sit around and talk about
our feelings.
LAURA: Fjord, you're really good at making chili.
MATT: The door opens again across the way as you
guys are having this conversation, and the
gentleman comes out again and goes, "Quickly,
follow me."
LAURA: Yes yes yes!
MATT: You guys make your way through the crowd and
follow him into this back chamber. You enter with
him. There's a slight hallway that leads into a
low-lit lounge with comfortable furniture with
cushions, there's some firelight, a few torches
set up in the chamber. There is a window across
the way that looks out into the open of the
Victory Pit's main battle area. You can see
servants wandering in similar brown silks and
robes as the barker, but they're carrying trays of
food. You see guests in expensive clothing that
dot the distant walls and areas of the chamber
sitting atop these cushioned couches and talking
in low voices to each other, broken with the
occasional laugh. The older gentleman ushers you
over and waves in the distance as a figure begins
to approach. This is another human man in probably
his early 60s or so, who has graying hair that is
slicked back and even further thinned than the
gentleman who first met you on the way in, who has
a very well groomed goatee that comes to an
accentuated curve up underneath in the front. He's
wearing a finely tailored dark blue festival
suit.
MARISHA: Ooh, styling!
MATT: The barker says, "These are the ones who--"
and the older guy goes, "Ah! It's far too late in
"the day. We couldn't muster a-- Very well. I am
Yadaka Brigman, Guildhead of the Filigree House
"and organizer of this harvest tournament. Who are
you, and have you the coin to enter?"
TRAVIS: Well, of course. We are the illustrious
Mighty Nein. Servants of Zadash.
MATT: "The Mighty Nein. Where are you from, Mighty
Nein?"
TRAVIS: All parts.
LAURA: All over. Everywhere and nowhere.
LIAM: DM, could you say that crazy-ass name
again?
MATT: Yadaka Brigman. "You are from everywhere."
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: "You will be announced as from everywhere."
LAURA: That's good. We are from lots of places,
after all.
MARISHA: Yeah, makes us feel very worldly.
MATT: "That's all right if that is what you
require. All right! Well, we've warriors from
"around the Marrow Valley come to compete today,
many of which who'll have been on the front lines
"of the eastern wastes. Are you still eager to lose
your coin and risk your life?"
TRAVIS: I forget. Refresh my memory about what the
fee is for entering this contest.
MATT: "20 gold pieces per fighter. Groups of
five to eight are allowed to enter. There are
"three rounds to this tournament."
LAURA: We'll have to leave one of our members--
SAM: That's true.
MARISHA: Poor Stan.
MATT: "Each victory is 200 gold to be dispersed
amongst your group and the winners that remain at
"the end split a 2,000 gold purse."
TRAVIS: Yeah, I believe that entry fee is along
the lines of what I remember.
MARISHA: Yeah, that seems standard.
TRAVIS: 20 gold will be fine.
LAURA: Are there rules or are we just allowed to
use whatever we come into the tournament with?
MATT: "Whatever you bring in there is at your
disposal to utilize. With your group that would
"make four who have signed up for the tournament
today. You will brought down to the
"waiting/holding area and each group will be
brought into the Victory Pit to face off with the
"chosen peril."
MARISHA: Wait, how did you get four?
SAM: Four groups.
MATT: "Four groups. You are the fourth to have
signed up."
LAURA: Only three schmeasly other groups?
ASHLEY: What are we fighting? Are we fighting the
other groups, or are we fighting something--
MATT: "Of course not! You're fighting a number of
creatures that have been acquired and kept for
"this tournament. Beasts and things that have been
either found wandering over the ranges of Xhorhas
"or have terrorized the local countryside and have
been brought to us by the Righteous Brand for this
"sort of tournament."
SAM: Are there frightening beasts? Big beasts?
Magical beasts?
TRAVIS: We know there are. I mean, that's what
we're looking for, right?
MATT: "There may very well be, young lass."
SAM: Then why are we doing this?
MATT: "Good question."
TRAVIS: Our friends, the Stubborn Stock, said that
this was the thing to do for people of our mettle.
SAM: We're going to fight dangerous monsters.
TRAVIS: Could you tell us who the other two groups
are, besides ourselves and the Stubborn Stock?
MATT: "Well, do you wish to join?"
TRAVIS: Of course, yeah.
MATT: "Then present your coin. What is your
name?"
TRAVIS: Fjord. Here, 20 gold.
MARISHA: Beauregard.
LIAM: Caleb. Beauregard, can you front me 16
gold?
MARISHA: (sighs)
LIAM: There's four more for you.
MARISHA: His name is Caleb and Beauregard, I want
that clear and on the record. It's Caleb and
Beauregard.
LIAM: Yeah, and Beauregard is the family name.
SAM: Kylre.
LAURA: Fancypants. 20 gold. There you are.
MATT: "Very well."
TALIESIN: Mollymauk.
ASHLEY: Yasha.
MATT: "Thank you. We've managed to squeeze you in
at the last moment. The rules are as such. Each
"team will face off with one of these encounters
we've developed for this tournament, continuing on
"if victorious to face another, until the other
teams fall, you fall, or the third round is
"completed. Should there be more than one victory
team at the end you will divide the purse amongst
"you. However, these will increase in difficulty
the further you remain. You will not be allowed
"but the time it takes for the other teams to
battle before you face once more. Previous years
"have shown us no more than maybe 20 minutes.
Whatever you have in each round is what you go in
"with. Use your time wisely. All of this will be
displayed in front of the Starosta, the appointees
"of the Crown, and the elite of the Tri-Spires.
Money and glory is here before you."
LAURA: What happens if somebody in one of the
other groups dies or something when fighting the
creatures?
MATT: "We have clerics on hand, and outside of
extenuating circumstances, we've only had one true
"fatality in the past 20 years of running this
festival, so you should be all right."
LAURA: Good to know.
TRAVIS: For the other groups.
LAURA: For the other groups, yes.
MATT: At this point, there's a bit of commotion at
the front entrance where you guys entered where
you see a figure rush in, a young human man. He's
sweating, longer blond hair past his ears. He's
wearing a very bright gold and red outfit and is
carrying a satchel over one shoulder as he rushes
in and talks to somebody. He points over in the
direction and heads up to where your group is.
Yadaka goes, "I'm terribly sorry. Page!" The page
looks up. "What business have you from the Crown?"
Looking over his attire, the page goes,
(breathing heavily) "I must speak with the
"Starosta immediately under order from King
Bertrand Dwendal himself." Yadaka goes, "Right.
"Come with me. I apologize. You'll have to give us
just a moment." He turns around. "Urgent matters.
"Enjoy some feasting while you're here." Him and
the page walk maybe 20 feet from you to a corner
where you can see there is a central couch there
where a few figures are sitting, and they rush up.
LIAM: Kitty.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
MATT: All right, so you roll a stealth check for
your cat.
(laughter)
LAURA: Cat butt right in their face.
MARISHA: Yeah, just sprays them!
MATT: As your cat begins to approach, one of the
servants goes, "You can't be in here," and--
(laughter) Not everyone's going to kick a cat into
dust! Picks up Frumpkin and begins to bring
Frumpkin away while the page begins gathering a
breath and you now see a very well-dressed
halfling with a curled mass of brown hair up top.
It's graying and white on the sides, who sits up
to meet with another important figure. Frumpkin
has been pulled away.
LIAM: Where did my cat go?
MATT: Your cat is being held by a servant.
LIAM: The last I see of Frumpkin is where?
MATT: Being led back towards where you came, like
taking the cat outside.
LIAM: Okay. I count to six and then I snap my
fingers and pull him off of this plane.
MATT: Okay. Servant's probably confused. What're
you guys doing?
LAURA: I guess I'm going to do some jumping jacks
to prepare for this.
LIAM: I have a leather thong or a string wrapped a
couple of times-- I'm going to ignore Laura
Bailey-- wrapped around my thigh and I will grip
it in my hand and say a few arcane words and cast
Mage Armor and out from the leather strap around
my leg, a light shimmer goes up over the entire
body for a split second and is gone.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: I would much prefer if it was actually a
leather thong that you had to put on in order to
get the Mage Armor.
LIAM: You have not seen me with my clothes off
yet.
MATT: There are the groups that are talking and
eating, there's the page currently engaging with
the folks and the figure, there's a couple of
servants passing around trays of food. What are
the rest of you doing? You have retrieved your
Frumpkin into your space.
LAURA: How do we prepare for this, Fjord?
TRAVIS: Well, I have no idea what we're going to
face.
SAM: Fighting monsters!
TRAVIS: We don't know that.
SAM: That's what the guy said! We're fighting
monsters.
MATT: There's another clap and you see two other
figures get pulled from the other side to join the
conversation by the couch.
SAM: Should we go find out what's going on over
there?
LAURA: I don't think we can.
SAM: I could sneaky-sneak over there and listen.
TRAVIS: Yeah, go for it.
MARISHA: Can you give her some blessing-type of
situation?
LAURA: Oh yes (jibberish).
SAM: I will cast Silent Image and I'm going to go
up to the corner, make the image of a three-foot
by three-foot box around me.
MARISHA: You're going full Solid Snake here?
SAM: I'm going to just (quick footsteps).
LAURA: That's not noticeable at all.
MATT: Okay, make your stealth check with
advantage.
TRAVIS: Amazing.
SAM: Stealth?
MATT: You get advantage because of her blessing.
SAM: Oh, wow. 19.
MATT: Okay. You saunter up at a relatively close
distance. Make a perception check if you're trying
to listen in.
SAM: Can I see through the box? Oh, it's a
listening perception.
MATT: Well, the box is an illusion.
SAM: Four.
MATT: (laughter) Four.
TRAVIS: Fuck.
MATT: You catch bits and pieces. Okay, what you
hear is the page hurriedly saying, "--which skies
"now darken Brokenveil, over 1000 dead, the
Ashguard Garrison is taken." You hear this
conversation a bit hush to hush, and a little bit
of (shushing). Starosta peeks in a bit. You only
catch the next bit which goes, "What's the king's
response?" Then you hear the page respond and say,
"--formally declared war on Kryn Dynasty and the
wastes of Xhorhas." There's some more muttering.
You miss that. You miss that.
LAURA: Oh no!
MATT: (laughter) You miss that.
LIAM: Secret warp zone to level eight, miss that.
MATT: Yadaka pipes in and goes, "Starosta, to
announce anything like that would set panic and
"change nothing. We are far from the fight. For
now, let them have a day to rejoice. We'll
"announce tomorrow." You miss the next thing, you
miss the next thing. The last thing you hear is
the Starosta say, "I'll send word to General
Grinbreaker and begin preparing her legion to move
"east. Tomorrow we'll notify the public, but page,
return word to Rexxentrum that Zadash prepares to
"join the front. Now, go." The page turns and
leaves.
SAM: (quick footsteps) Still in box form, I am
going to go back up to them.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Hey guys, it's me. I'm in a box!
LAURA: Well, take it off.
SAM: No, it's not a real box. I'll stick my hand
through it. I heard everything!
TRAVIS: What's going down?
SAM: There's an attack on Ashguard something.
LAURA: Oh! That's the garrison over by the--
SAM: Okay, thank you! The King said we're going to
declare war on Xhorhas or something like that, I
don't remember. Then there's 1000 dead! The skies
were black--
LAURA: On our side or their side?
SAM: I don't know! Maybe ours? At the Garrison
there was 1000 dead, so that's our side? Wait, no,
we're not on sides! We don't like the Empire!
LAURA: I mean, who cares, right?
SAM: Anyway, but they wanted to declare war and
they're not going to until tomorrow.
LAURA: Good thing we didn't join the army, huh?
SAM: Yes!
TALIESIN: What makes you think they're not going
to start conscripting people tomorrow?
LAURA: Oh no! Maybe if you competed and they saw
you were awesome, they're going to tell you you
have to join.
SAM: We should throw the fight.
TALIESIN: Maybe we should win the fight, then
maybe think about getting out of town?
TRAVIS: I agree with Molly.
MARISHA: Caleb, is there anything about this
letter?
LIAM: Do I notice anything?
MATT: Which letter?
MARISHA: I don't know, I'm paranoid right now.
It's just the scroll from the--
MATT: It's a pamphlet.
MARISHA: I don't know, ignore what I just said.
TALIESIN: Made it at Kinko's.
TRAVIS: Are there crownsguard in the little
waiting area that we're in?
MATT: There are at the entrance where you came in
and each side.
TRAVIS: Can I make my way to one that's over by
the entrance?
MATT: Okay. You back up towards where you guys
came in, and there's a crownsguard there, arms
crossed, looking up.
TRAVIS: Man, I cannot wait to see this year's
Victory Pit competition! I hear the beasts are
heartier than they were last year.
MATT: "I certainly hope so. It's going to be a lot
of fun to watch."
TRAVIS: Which one is your favorite so far?
MATT: "Oh, which one?"
TRAVIS: The beast they selected this year.
MATT: "Well, I haven't seen them. They keep those
under wraps. It's part of the surprise."
TRAVIS: Really?
MATT: "Yeah!"
TRAVIS: Man, I heard you guys were more informed
than that.
MATT: (laughter) "Not us, that's above our pay
grade."
TRAVIS: Really? Sheesh. What do you got to do to
get duty like that?
MATT: "Well, you probably have to go to the King's
Hall and sign up for the Crownsguard. Kiss ass for
"a few years and maybe then."
TRAVIS: Where do the handlers of those beasts stay
around here?
MATT: "I don't know. That's, once again, outside
of my jurisdiction. They keep a lot of things
"separate intentionally."
TRAVIS: Fair enough. You feel like dropping a coin
on a team, remember The Mighty Nein.
MATT: "Right. Appreciate that, friend."
TRAVIS: I walk away.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: That was good. That was very good.
LIAM: It occurs to me that starting tomorrow, it
would be more important than ever that we stick
together.
LAURA: All of us, or just you and Nott?
LIAM: All of us.
MARISHA: Jester, high-five.
MATT: At this point, the barker who met you
originally says, "Sorry to bother you, but they're
"gathering the various teams down into the holding
area. I'll have to escort you. Please come with me."
MARISHA: As we walk off, I hold Caleb and walk
behind a little bit. What did you hear at the
Cobalt Soul?
LIAM: What?
MARISHA: You were trying to get into the Cobalt
Soul, right?
LIAM: Yeah, I talked to some people from there,
yeah.
MARISHA: You replicated robes from the Cobalt
Soul, right? That's what you were going for.
LIAM: Actually, it was not the exact same color.
It was a similar color, but not the same color.
MARISHA: Yeah, that was a nice little error on
your part. You got real close. I can tell that you
were trying to get the dyes. You know, the
gradients.
LIAM: Beauregard, is there something that you are
after here?
MARISHA: Did you hear anything?
LIAM: Nothing pertaining to what we have just
learned. If that is what you are looking for, no.
I want to enter that library, although tomorrow,
anything goes. I don't know.
MARISHA: I'll get you into the library if you
want.
LIAM: How will you get me into the library?
MARISHA: I pull back my belt a little bit and show
him the rest of the script written out on the back
of my belt from the Cobalt Reserve.
LIAM: Would I instantly recognize that as the same
as the people I spoke to?
MATT: As far as the--
MARISHA: On my trainer's belt on the back.
SAM: Do you have a tramp stamp back there?
MARISHA: No, it's on my belt. Fancy embroidery on
the inside of my belt.
MATT: Right. You look at it and there is similar
design to some of the outfits and the--
LIAM: I mean, there's probably enough to go on
here. She's also dressed in blue. She's basically going--
MATT: Yeah. You pick up on it.
LIAM: Well, if we're not all dead in 48 hours,
maybe we can talk about that again.
MARISHA: Yeah. Don't look at me like that! You can
look at me, just don't look at me like that!
You're not going to look at me now, are you? Okay.
It's fine. You know what, we'll talk about it tomorrow.
MATT: You guys are continuing to be escorted down
past. Most everyone has filtered into their seats.
There's still stragglers finding their way in, and
as the day's sun is getting further into the
mid-afternoon, you guys are brought down to an
area that is similar to that lounge area, but far
less in its decor and comfort. This chamber has
two windowed doors on the opposite side that are
cut through windows that lead into the central
arena. You can smell the dust on the opposite
side. The interior is outfitted with about three
dozen simple stools that are scattered about, a
few tables with cornucopias of fruits and meats
that are set, and a few folks you see are feasting
on them. There are two stationed healers of the
Platinum House of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon.
They are the ones stationed there to prevent folks
from dying and the other combatants. In one
corner, there are five soldiers of the Righteous
Brand, one of which is Gunther, who are in the
process of taking large handfuls of food and
eating and getting themselves some energy for
battle. As soon as you enter, they glance over and
give a bit of a nod of notification. Gunther,
looking straight to you, grabs an apple of some
kind, and throws it at you. "Eat. You'll need it."
ASHLEY: Thank you.
LAURA: (whispers) He's got a crush on you, I can
tell.
MARISHA: (whispers) Don't let him tell you what to
do!
SAM: I'm in a box!
(laughter)
LAURA: We have a little box traveling with us.
LIAM: I drop a little bit of spell components
through the box.
MATT: It looks like amongst them there is one
acting as leader, or at least is in the process of
discussing tactics among the small troupe, though
you can't hear exactly what he is saying. An elven
man with short brown hair, and these sky blue
piercing eyes who is in the process of giving
orders to them. Then he walks off to the side,
pulls a blade out and begins practicing. It's this
very elegant, almost dance-like blade technique.
On the opposite side of the room to them, all
leaning against the wall, you see five dwarves and
two gnomes that are all wearing black and gold
variations to armor, robes. They are avoiding all
social engagements and staring, mad dogging
everyone else in the chamber. As soon as you
enter, all their eyes shift in your direction, and
they watch you as you step into the chamber. In
the center of them, you see a gray haired dwarven
women, weathered skin and a surly grin as you
approach, gleaming these yellow teeth from
beneath, who gives a bit of a squinted stare at
you as you pass by. You see two battleaxes resting
at the side of her belt, hanging off of her
armor.
MARISHA: Is she her own team?
MATT: Then over by the doors, snacking and looking
out the window into the pit before you, you see a
group of six individuals in scuffed armor of green
and brown with weathered armor and skin that shows
experience and travel. Markings and accessories
gives you a sense of inland Menagerie Coast
heritage, and there you see Darrow who you had met
earlier in the tournament, who's leaning out the
window. He turns around as you enter and goes,
"Ah, so you did indeed decide to join. Not too bad,
"I'm excited to see how well you do."
ASHLEY: Have you been in this tournament before?
MATT: "I have not, but I've been hearing about it.
I'm excited to give it my all, as you say."
TRAVIS: What are you going to do about the flying
creatures?
MATT: "That's a good question. I imagine that's
less of my worry, and more of theirs." He points
out to the rest of the people in the stands, and
goes, "I certainly hope they have ways to deal
"with that, otherwise that's going to be a very
unhappy day tomorrow for the people in the city."
TRAVIS: Indeed.
LAURA: There will be a very unhappy day tomorrow.
TALIESIN: Ixnay.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: "That is not cryptic at all. Well, the
Stubborn Stock are my esteemed mercenary band.
"Friends, this is the--"
TRAVIA: The Mighty Nein.
MATT: "The Mighty Nein, we met earlier at the
places with the games." All of them give a nod and
then grunt and reach over and start shaking hands.
They seem, of all the people in here, the most
friendly. As soon as this happens, the crowd
outside starts cheering loudly. The sounds of chaos
begin to build.
MARISHA: Mortal Kombat!
MATT: The cheers swell, and swell. You hear feet
slamming throughout the entire event, causing dust
to come down off the ceiling above you. You begin
to realize that you are below some of the stands.
A figure across the way emerges from another
doorway from the right and the crowd goes crazy.
This humanoid figure steps to the center. Now
looking through the windows, you can see this is
an open circular sand pit, where there are some
wall-like structures in places and pillars beyond
those to break up the interior. It has some small
areas for cover and these pillars in the far
corners of each side. This figure who walks in is
a tall half-giant figure covered in tattoos and
spiked armor. As he approaches, his hands in the
air as the crowd's yelling and screaming.
LAURA: I hope we don't have to fight him.
MARISHA: I want to be him.
MATT: Steps out. "Welcome, all fair peoples of the
great empire under our King Bertrand Dwendal, may
"his grace bless this harvest's end and grant us a
warm winter." The crowd goes crazy. "I am your
"humble Jermai Kull, previous champion. While I
have left the fight, I now live for the fights of
"others. It is my pleasure to bring you this year's
great tournament." The crowd swells again. Some of
the groups behind start mounting up behind you and
everyone's crowding around the windows. "We
"welcome our guests of high esteem on this day.
Give your applause to our keeper of freedom and
"order, Lawmaster Orentha Stonegrasp." He points
across the way up in the stands. The cheers go
bright and you see a figure stand up, and you can
see the gray haired dwarf who you had met in the
King's Hall earlier. She's the Lawmaster of Zadash
who had come out to thank you for the job you had
done in slaying the phase spider in the sewers.
She raises a hand and then sits down. Make a
perception check as she waves her hand and gray
hair--
TRAVIS: Natural one.
MATT: Nope.
TALIESIN: 17.
SAM: 18.
LAURA: Nine.
MARISHA: 20.
ASHLEY: Six.
MATT: You glancing there, your eagle sight of an
inquisitive monk of the Cobalt Soul, glance past
and you can see where she's sitting, and there,
about two people over sitting in the stand next to
her is a familiar face. Pretty sure that's Dolan.
SAM and MARISHA: Our Dolan.
LAURA: Oh. He was supposed to go. Right?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah. Okay.
LIAM: Caleb is popping his hood up over his head
and face.
MATT: "We also bring to this tournament the
Headmaster of the Zauber Spire, who repelled the
"Crick assault on our great place of arcane
learning. Shaping the minds of our future mages,
"Oremid Hass!" As the crowd cheers again, you see,
back a row and to the left, a figure stand and
raise a hand. Once again, everybody roll a
perception check, please.
SAM: Wow.
MARISHA: Ugh, that was so bad. Not good. Five.
LIAM: Ten.
LAURA: 16.
TALIESIN: Six.
SAM: Nine.
ASHLEY: Six.
TRAVIS: Nine.
MATT: Nine. 16 was the highest?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: Who was that?
LAURA: Me.
MATT: That was Jester. Jester, you glance up and
see, best you can a figure, a stocky, dark brown
skinned man with very short curled black hair
across the top of the head, very square jaw, in
long red and gray robes. He raises a hand and
smiles and everyone cheers. Sitting next to him
you see a figure that you had seen before. You can
make out an older human man with longer gray hair,
bald on top. This was the mage you saw floating in
the sky during the attack.
LAURA: Is he in white? Is that the color of robes
he--
MATT: Yes, white and gold.
LAURA: Whoa.
MATT: "None of this would be possible if not for
the love of you, and celebration from our esteemed
"Starosta Wyatt Fedar!" There at the very front of
that same area, you see the same halfling who was
talking earlier to the page, step up on a small
platform to give him a little more height and
prestige amongst this point. The male halfling
with the curly hair and the graying sides raises
his hands and give a soft bow, and the crowd
explodes and cheers.
MARISHA: You said this is the Starosta, right?
MATT: This is him. "Now, we begin to bring in our
fighters for this, and our first competing team of
"this Victory Pit tournament: The Last Line, all
the way from Bladegarden!" The doors open, and all
the gentlemen and ladies in the Righteous Brand
armor push past you, with Gunther and the elven
gentleman, step out into the light. Now you can
see the cloudy sky has broken up a bit, and there
is a bit of sunlight coming down into this pit.
They step out into the center as the emcee begins
to step away. He goes, "May the first fight be a
memorable one." He steps back and enters a distant
door that closes behind him. They all spread out
and prepare. Across the way, a door opens and you
see something shift out in chains that are then
pulled off the body and the doors close behind.
There you see a 12-foot tall frog-humanoid-like
creature with a giant belly that begins to lumber
forward towards them. They all immediately assault
this entity, jumping in the air, vaulting off
sides of the walls, assaulting it. One gets
smacked in the face, it grabs another and throws
it onto the ground. Another one rushes up as it
grabs and slams it onto the floor and puts its weight
on top of it, one foot pushing it down. Gunther
rushes up with a blade and carves into a large
section of its face. The crowd goes crazy as it
pulls back and shoves Gunther off with a back
fist. The elven leader rushes forward and does a
few quick swipes with his blade. The large toad
creature grabs it and attempts to swallow him, and
manages to do so, completely ingests the leader.
The rest begin to assault. Make an arcana check.
LIAM: 18.
MATT: 18. You don't recognize the creature, but
there's something about this entity.
SAM: There's just something about him.
TRAVIS: No, nine.
MATT: No. All right, this fight goes on for
another minute or so. You watch them trade blows
back and forth. Nobody falls, and eventually the
general carves his way from the stomach of the
beast with a giant swipe of his blade. You watch
as the blood begins to pour from it as he leaps
out, coated in saliva and the creature's own
crimson, spins around, and as the large toad beast
pulls back, they all together, with one unified
strike, surround and attack it. The beast lumbers
forward and falls to the ground, unconscious. With
a rousing cheer from the audience, the previous
doors open. As the soldiers raise their weapons
high and give a respectful bow, they begin to walk
back towards the holding area, as they drag the
unconscious body of this creature back to where it came.
LAURA: Do we all fight the same type of creature?
TALIESIN: Probably not.
MATT: The emcee shouts again from the side, "With
that, the banderhobb has fallen!"
SAM: Bander rob?
MATT: "Next, a last minute addition to today's
tournament. We bring forth, traveled from
"everywhere--"
LAURA: That's us!
MATT: "The Mighty Nein!"
SAM: Oh, shit, it's us!
MATT: The doors open again, and you guys are given
a straight path into the center of this field.
TRAVIS: Yeah, bring it out!
LAURA: Oh my god!
SAM: This was such a good day.
LAURA: Oh no!
MATT: It's okay. I bumped it on the way over.
SAM: Whoa. Did you print that? On a laser
printer?
MATT: No, this was from Mats by Mars, they do
awesome stuff.
LAURA: Oh my god, that's so cool.
MATT: You guys can place yourselves where you'd
like.
SAM: Where's the doors to the-- oh, they're over
there. Got it.
MATT: Any particular placement you'd like, as you
guys have a moment to set yourselves up here.
LIAM: Would I have been able to cast a spell as we
are pushed forward into all this mess?
MATT: You would.
LIAM: Blur.
MATT: Blur, all right. You have a Blur spell on
right now.
TRAVIS: Put me behind that wall, yep.
MARISHA: Where's the opening?
LAURA: Yeah, where did the monster come out of?
MATT: You guys entered from this side over here,
and you saw the monster enter from this space.
LAURA: Oh, okay.
LIAM: Matt, I take that back. I'm not going to
cast Blur. Sorry, my apologies.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: Can you help me?
MATT: What do you want to do?
LAURA: I want to be there.
ASHLEY: Can I do that on the other one, opposite
her?
MATT: Sure.
TALIESIN: I'll back up into mine.
LIAM: As close to the center as is possible.
SAM: I will be behind the pillar over there.
MATT: Over here?
SAM: No, this one over-- yes, thank you.
TALIESIN: That, I think, is the door where it
opens.
MARISHA: It could be anywhere, to be fair.
LAURA: Oh, right. There's multiple doors.
MATT: The emcee disappears and vanishes into the
back. You guys all take a quiet moment, looking
around you in silence. As the audience gets quiet,
still, you can see hundreds and hundreds of faces
all staring, strangely formless when it's a cloud
like this in all directions, little beams of light
peeking through the clouds, hitting the sand and
dirt on the ground before you. In that quiet, you
hear (slamming). You glance around briefly and see
not one, but two doors seem to have opened.
TRAVIS: Oh, good.
MATT: Only one of them has a creature that
emerges. It seems like they're playing mind games
with you so you don't know where it's coming--
TRAVIS: Or the other one's invisible.
MATT: The door to this side suddenly swings open,
and a beast begins to lumber out, chains detaching
from manacles on two of its tethered, large
tentacle-like arms. This grayish-brown mass,
probably close to 15 feet in height, with a giant
mouth filled with teeth and a large tongue that
lolls off the side. Three tendrils reach off of it
as these large, heavy feet pull it forward. Smell
wafts around it of feces and rot. I need all of
you to roll initiative, as this creature emerges
right there.
LAURA: It's a big eating-poop pile!
LIAM: Liam knows what that is. Grody to the max!
LAURA: Yeah, gag me with a spoon, Mrs. Henderson!
ASHLEY: Gag me with a spoon!
MATT: 25 to 20.
MARISHA: Hang on! Oh, that moved it! It was a 19
plus one. 24!
SAM: Whoa!
MATT: 24, all right.
TALIESIN: 23.
MATT: Beau, Molly! Anybody else? Okay, 20 to 15.
LIAM: 18.
MATT: 18 for Caleb.
SAM: Oh, 16 here.
MATT: All right, Nott. 15 to ten? Ten to five?
LAURA, TRAVIS, and ASHLEY: Six!
MATT: Oh, dear.
MARISHA: Oh no! It's a sign.
SAM: (demonic voice) Present!
MATT: All righty, I believe that's everyone?
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: Top of the round, as this being (stomping)
(sucking), its tongue slabbering around its open
maw, Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: (inhales) Okay! I can clear the distance,
right? 40 feet?
MATT: Five, ten, 15, 20, 25. Yeah, easily.
SAM: Oh yeah, go closer to the creature. That's a
good idea.
LAURA: That's what she does!
MARISHA: I fight with my fists, Sam!
SAM: I don't like it! It's scary!
ASHLEY: Fists of fury!
LAURA: Fists of fury, Mrs. Henderson!
ASHLEY: Fists of furry, Mrs. Henderson!
MARISHA: Before I run off, I go: Does anyone know
if this is a time trial, or something? Then I run
off towards it.
MATT: Okay, are you driving straight towards it?
Or are you coming from a specific angle?
MARISHA: No, I mean, straight towards it.
MATT: All right, there you go.
MARISHA: Then, instead of my staff, I'm drawing my
two wooden swords that I won with Nott.
SAM: Oh, no.
MARISHA: I'm going to beat face with my wooden
swords, with my two attacks.
MATT: Okay, so are you--
MARISHA: This is going to be great!
MATT: Here's my question: is this just flavor to
your unarmed strikes, or are you actually trying
to damage it with the wooden swords?
MARISHA: I was thinking more like flavor to my
unarmed strikes, but I'm a monk, so?
MATT: All right, so it looks like you're fighting
with the swords, but you're really punching with them.
MARISHA: I'm punching.
MATT: It's more for the show of it.
MARISHA: Yeah. It's funsies.
LIAM: What if they are like police batons?
MATT: They're not that strong.
LAURA: They're like balsa wood.
MATT: Go ahead. Two attacks.
MARISHA: First one's a 14, second one's a seven
plus six, so sorry, 20 for the first one and 13
for the second.
MATT: First one hits, second one misses.
MARISHA: Okay, ooh! That is 12 damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage as you hit it and you
feel the actual wood of the sword crack a little
bit, but your fist does hit the beast in the side,
its giant blubbery, nasty body, almost slippery
and sticky on impact, shifts from the blow. Is
that your turn?
MARISHA: Then I'm going to spend a ki point and do
one more.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Flurry of blows. That's not good at all.
Ten.
MATT: Total ten? That misses. The third blow goes
wide, no impact. That ends your turn. Molly,
you're up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to use Vicious Mockery and
just, you know: (demonic voice) You've got no
arms, it's awful! It's a psychic attack.
LAURA: I start laughing.
MATT: That's a--
TALIESIN: It says wisdom, but is it charisma?
MATT: It's a wisdom save, but it's charisma-based.
The DC's ten.
TALIESIN: Okay, yeah.
MATT: That's a natural 20 on its saving throw.
TALIESIN: That saves.
MATT: Sorry.
TALIESIN: That's okay. I'm going to also use my
bonus action to light my other sword.
MATT: All right, so you have both blades now
going?
TALIESIN: I have both blades going now, so I'm
knocking that down.
MATT: Which rite?
TALIESIN: With not the ice, the--
MATT: The Rite of the Dawn? Okay, got it. Both of
your blades are now glowing.
TALIESIN: I'm going to run, let's see, I've got 30
feet? I'm going to cross and run for cover behind that.
MATT: There?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: That ends your turn, Molly. It is now the
creature's turn.
LAURA: Oh, let's see what it weirdly does. It's
going to poop on you!
SAM: Or breathe some awful breath of death.
TALIESIN: It's going to swallow people.
MATT: It's going to step up right there. As it
passes by, it's going to go ahead and swing one of
its large tentacle arms, which you see have these
long, curved tooth-like protrusions at the end,
almost like a slapping squid tentacle. It swings
toward you, Beau, with the first one. Natural one.
Nope, that misses. You manage to duck it. However,
it swings-- okay, that is a 17 to hit, what's your
armor class?
MARISHA: 17.
MATT: Just hits. As the tentacle misses to strike
you, it does manage to grab you from behind and
pull you in toward its mouth. As it opens and
chomps down on you--
MARISHA: Aw, gross!
MATT: Yeah, you're pulled into its poopy mouth.
LAURA: Ew! It's like Charlie!
MATT: That is 15 points of piercing damage, and I
need you to roll a constitution saving throw, as
the horribly--
LAURA: How much damage did he do?
MATT: 15 points of piercing damage.
LAURA: 15 fucking points!
MATT: Make a constitution saving throw, please.
MARISHA: Don't. Fuck. Me Gil! Ooh, that was almost
a natural 20! This always happens with Gil. Six?
MATT: Six, no. As the teeth sink into your body
and you pull away, you feel this mild infection
already begin to set inside you, and you are
poisoned.
LAURA: Oh no, you're poisoned!
MARISHA: He gives you heartburn, you guys. It's
real bad.
MATT: The other tentacle is going to swing over
towards you, Jester, as it sees you around the
corner. That, however, is a really poor roll.
That's going to be an eight, that misses you. You
duck and it hits the stone, causing this dust to
spray off of it from the impact. That's going to
end its turn. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: I pull out a handful of iron powder, and I
throw it into the air so it's a big cloud, and my
two hands go (sweeping noise), and Yasha grows to
twice her normal size.
ALL: What?!
TRAVIS: Oh, shit.
MATT: For the purposes of that, we'll put Yasha on
this big old dice there.
ASHLEY: Does that mean I do twice the damage?
MATT: Not twice.
SAM: Yes, it does.
LIAM: Then I will use my movement to get over to
the corner near Fjord. If I could get around it, I
would, but I'm sure I don't have enough movement.
MATT: Six is about as close as you can get,
there.
LIAM: Yeah, so you're at advantage because of your
size and all of your attacks have an additional
1d4.
ASHLEY: (high-pitched) Ooh!
SAM: She's huge!
LIAM: She's 14 feet tall.
SAM: 14?
LIAM: No, you're six? 12 feet tall.
ASHLEY: I'm like 5'11".
LIAM: 12-ish feet tall. Doubles it. Your weight is
eight times its normal weight.
MATT: You have advantage on strength checks and
saving throws, which is what your rage does, but
your weapons do an additional 1d4 points of damage
when you hit, which is good.
ASHLEY: Excellent. I'm into that.
MARISHA: I've had this dream.
MATT: Caleb, that ends your turn.
MARISHA: Question, quick retroactive one: Can I
use my reaction attack when that thing attacked
Jester to do my Sentinel thing?
MATT: You can, yeah.
MARISHA: Can I do that?
MATT: Go for it. As it strikes and misses Jester,
you get one swing, but it's with disadvantage on
the attack because you're poisoned.
MARISHA: Nope.
MATT: Swing wide, unfortunately you're hazy in
your view, and you feel the poison start to seep
into your veins, the diseased bite of the creature
starting to infect your torso. That ends Caleb's
turn, Nott, you're up.
SAM: I will shoot my thing at it!
MATT: You other three are up after that, at the
same time.
SAM: 21 to hit.
MATT: That hits! Roll damage.
SAM: Is Yasha--
MATT: Yeah, they're adjacent, so you get sneak
attack.
LAURA: Whoa, that's good.
MATT: Oh, damn!
SAM: Okay, (counting) 19.
MATT: 19 points of damage.
SAM: Wait, you know what? If I'm going to be
honest, that thing is beyond 30 feet, so I would
have moved in closer so I don't have to fire at
disadvantage.
MATT: Okay, so I'll put you about there to do
that.
SAM: Then do I have any movement left?
MATT: Five feet.
SAM: All right, well then I'll dash and I'll go
back around towards me, behind this corner and
hide. Just duck back there. That's it! Take a
swig.
MATT: Take a swig. It's a free action. All right,
Jester, Yasha, and Fjord, you guys are going at
the same time, so you decide who is going to take
their action first.
TRAVIS: Ladies first.
ASHLEY: We can go in that order.
MATT: All right, so Jester, Yasha, then Fjord.
Jester.
LAURA: Okay, well he's right there, so I'm going
to use Sacred Flame on him. Oh, actually I'm
really close and he's already been hurt. I'm going
to Toll the Dead on him.
MATT: What saving throw is that?
LAURA: That is a wisdom saving throw!
MATT: Rolled a four. Three plus one.
LAURA: I get to hit him! Seven points of damage!
MATT: Seven points of necrotic damage. As the bell
(ringing) you watch as the creature shimmies in place.
LAURA: I want to back away! Did he already use his
reaction at all?
MATT: You don't think so. What do you want to do?
LAURA: Oh no.
SAM: Just run away. What could happen?
MARISHA: Run away!
LAURA: No, fuck it, I'm going to stay right
there.
MATT: Jester stays. Yasha, what are you doing?
ASHLEY: If I move--
SAM: (deep voice) I'm sorry, you have to talk like
this now.
ASHLEY: (deep voice) If I move (normal voice)
right here, am I ten feet of the creature, but
they're not ten feet of me, right?
MATT: You don't get reach with the Enlarge, so you
still have to get one more to hit with the melee
weapon.
ASHLEY: Okay, I get one more, but I'm not ten feet
away from Beau and Jester, right?
MATT: You're ten feet away from Beau, currently.
ASHLEY: Can I go one over to the right?
MATT: There? You're ten feet away from Jester,
yeah.
LIAM: Who do you choose?
ASHLEY: You know what, I won't do that right now.
I would like to rage.
MATT: Rage kicks in.
ASHLEY: I'm going to use my Magician's Judge sword
and start swinging.
MATT: You have any reckless attacks, or not?
ASHLEY: Say again?
MATT: No, that's fine.
ASHLEY: Oh, no. 14.
MATT: 14 just hits, go ahead and roll damage.
LAURA: You get advantage, remember.
MATT: Not on attacks. If she does reckless, she
gets advantage.
LAURA: Okay, sorry.
LIAM: And your 1d4 for being gigantic.
ASHLEY: (counting) 20.
MATT: 20 points of damage with the strike. As
large Yasha (heavy footsteps)--
SAM: You added all your shit to that?
ASHLEY: I added all my shit.
MATT: This is going to be a thing. I have to make
a large Yasha figure now. Swing the giant blade
with two hands. As the blade carves down, it
embeds itself four or five inches into the body of
the creature. It pulls back instinctually, and as
it does, it drags the blade through its body and
blood sprays out. The blood itself is a thick
brown color, and the smell gets even worse as it
begins to spray its ichor around the air. Well
done. Is that your turn?
ASHLEY: Yep, and I'm going to stay right there.
MATT: Fjord, your turn.
TRAVIS: Can I turn towards the beast, and I'll
cast Eldritch Blast at it.
MATT: Go for it. You step out from behind cover.
TRAVIS: That is a 23 to hit.
MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
TRAVIS: That is a ten plus four, 14 points of
damage.
MATT: Nice!
TRAVIS: Can I roll back behind cover?
MATT: You can. Dart back onto the edge--
TRAVIS: Even a couple more. Out of view, there we
go.
MATT: That ends your turn. Top of the round, Beau,
you're up.
MARISHA: I'm going to fight, both my swords, pop
pop, coming down on his head. Don't fuck me, Gil.
That's all right, 18.
MATT: Disadvantage on all attacks.
MARISHA: Disadvantage because I'm poisoned. 18.
MATT: 18 hits!
LIAM: Matt, is that ring for what, concentration?
MATT: Concentration.
MARISHA: That's not a thing. Nine damage.
MATT: Nine points of damage as you strike it. This
time, the wooden sword does snap. It breaks on
impact. You still have the hilt.
MARISHA: I turn to the audience and I go:
(yelling)
MATT: (distant yelling) There's a resounding
cheer.
MARISHA: I go: Yasha, look! I do Patient Defense
for my other ki point.
MATT: You go in your defensive stance. Good. That
ends your turn. Molly, you're up.
TALIESIN: How many feet away am I from this
thing?
MATT: You are 40, 45 feet from it.
TALIESIN: I'm going to start dashing to that
next-- yeah, that direction.
MATT: 30, that's your movement.
TALIESIN: I'm going to do one more attempt at
Vicious Mockery. (Infernal noises)
MATT: That's a 14.
TALIESIN: He still saves?
MATT: He still saves.
TALIESIN. That's all right.
MATT: That your turn?
TALIESIN: That's what I got.
MATT: Now it's the creature's turn. With you right
there in front of it, it's going to attempt to
bite you, Yasha, with its giant mouth.
LAURA: No, not its poop mouth!
MATT: That is 16. What's your armor class?
ASHLEY: 14.
MATT: Aw, okay, hits you.
MARISHA: Attack with my reaction!
TRAVIS: Sentinel!
MARISHA: Sentinel! Natural 20. Eight. 14.
MATT: 14 does hit. You take 15 points of piercing
damage, and I need you to make a constitution
saving throw.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm not going to use that one.
SAM: Does the Enlarge give her advantage on saving
throws?
MATT: Just strength.
ASHLEY: Eight.
MATT: Eight. Even in your enlarged state, the
diseased gathering of bacteria and terrible
elements--
ASHLEY: 15 points?
MATT: 15 points. The poison courses through your
body, and Yasha, you are considered poisoned.
ASHLEY: Oh, this sucks!
MARISHA: It takes seven points of damage from the
unarmed strike.
MATT: It does. It's going to take its tentacles
and swing one towards you, Jester.
SAM: Oh no, Jessie!
LAURA: Oh no!
MATT: That is 23 to hit.
LAURA: That hits me.
MATT: As the tentacle swings out toward you,
clawing past you with its raking teeth-- oh shit.
That's 11 points of bludgeoning damage plus eight
points of piercing damage as it carves into you.
LAURA: I'm going to use Hellish Rebuke on him.
MATT: Go for it.
LAURA: Yeah, you still don't have any stupid arms,
stupid!
MATT: You are also grappled, as the tentacle wraps
around you and begins to squeeze and hold you in
place. The teeth and the thorns that are coming
out of the side of its tentacle jamming into your
body. Is it a constitution save for Hellish
Rebuke?
LAURA: Hellish Rebuke is a 2nd-level. I really
wish it gave more information about what--
SAM: It will certainly be fixed, because D&D
Beyond is a responsive company and we love them.
LAURA: It doesn't say anywhere what Hellish
Rebuke-- oh there it is! Dexterity save!
MATT: There we go. That is going to be a nine.
LAURA: That means I get 3d10.
MATT: 3d10 damage to it.
MARISHA: Yes!
TRAVIS: Rock that shit. Goodnight Irene, let's
go.
LAURA: 12.
MATT: 12 points of damage. Nice. There's a burst
of icy shards and blades that explode out of
Jester into the tentacle and along the side of its
body as it pulls back in place, swinging its other
tentacle out behind it towards Beau.
LAURA: How much damage did you say I just took,
though? Because I was busy. 19 points of damage.
SAM: 11 plus eight.
MATT: With disadvantage, because you have defense.
Even with a disadvantage, that is 18.
MARISHA: Fuck! Yeah.
MATT: You suffer five points of bludgeoning
damage, plus three points of piercing, so eight
total, and you are also grappled.
LIAM: All of the male players are 40 feet back,
and all the women are right in there.
MATT: Now you are poisoned and grappled. The two
side tentacles, and there's the one large tentacle
on top which, now that you have a closer look, has
three vertical eyes in it that are glancing around
and looking at the space. The two are wrapped
around two of your allies as Yasha's dealing with
the poison wracking through her veins. That's
going to end its turn. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: I am very aware of how many people are in
this arena, especially high-powered ones, as I
wrap one hand around my forearm and I cast
Scorching Ray even though I feel nauseous, and off
they go.
MATT: Go for it. Because it attacked Beau, you
could use your reaction to attack it back with
your Sentinel feat.
SAM: You have Sentinel also?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: They both do. You have that. I'll let you do
it now if you wanted to, if you want to take it.
ASHLEY: Fuck yes. Yes.
LAURA: If you feel like attacking.
MATT: You have disadvantage on the attack,
unfortunately.
LIAM: 26, ten, 16.
MATT: The first and the last one hit.
ASHLEY: Natural 20. 13.
MATT: 13 just misses. You swing, and as you're
about to hit with the blade, the poison pulses
through your veins, and you go wide as the
creature manages to be out of range. How much
damage is that?
LIAM: 15 points of fire damage.
MATT: Both rays slam into it and the flames burst
up, and you hear (pained gurgling), trying to pull
back from the impact, but it's currently by the
wall, and it's holding onto your friends and
holding its ground.
LIAM: I'll take a step five feet that way and as I
do so I look over at Fjord and just-- and that's
the end of my turn.
TRAVIS: Big nope.
MATT: That ends Caleb's go. Jester.
LAURA: Oh, that's me!
MATT: Yes. You are currently grappled, and while
you are grappled you are restrained until you
break free.
SAM: I think it's my turn.
MATT: Oh, sorry, Nott's after Caleb, my bad. Thank
you.
SAM: I'm going to stick my hand around and fire my
little crossy-bowy. Not good! Not good at all.
Ten!
MATT: Ten goes wide. As it's reeling back from the
blow of the flame jets from your buddy Caleb,
unfortunately as you fire it moves just out of the
way, and the bolt goes wide.
SAM: I will reload and fire again. Oh god! Should
we count that?
LAURA: Yeah, I think so. What do you add to it?
SAM: I don't know. Matt, do I count that or not?
LAURA: It's 18. It landed in my box, but it landed
up.
MATT: If it landed, then it's fine.
SAM: Okay, 18 to hit.
MATT: 18 does hit, so go ahead and roll damage and
sneak attack.
SAM: I get sneak attack?
MATT: It's still adjacent to a friend of yours.
SAM: Great. 15.
MATT: Nice, all right. It strikes on the inside of
the mouth.
SAM: I'll take Fury of the Small, why not. 19.
MATT: 19 points of damage total, got it. (bolt
impact, groaning) It looks like it's hurting, but
it's also in control of the battlefield on that
side there. That ends your turn. Jester.
SAM: Back behind a wall.
LAURA: Oh god. Does it look like it's hurting at
all?
MATT: It looks like it's hurt.
LAURA: While I'm in its grasp, can I touch the
tentacle and cast Toll the Dead again?
MATT: If you'd like to.
SAM: If you think that would help.
LAURA: I want to do that.
MATT: Okay. The saving throw-- that's cocked. No,
that is a five plus one.
LAURA: Okay. Two.
MATT: Hey, it all helps. It all goes to the same
place. You are still restrained and held in place
there. Anything else you want to do?
LAURA: I probably should have tried to un-restrain
myself.
SAM: You're a great player.
MATT: No, it's an action to break free.
LAURA: It's an action. Well, I already did it. I
already Tolled the Dead, so too late.
MATT: End of your turn?
LAURA: I guess so.
MATT: Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: I'm going to attack again.
TALIESIN: There's no short rest between here
and--
LAURA: There could be.
MARISHA: No, there could be more groups, man.
MATT: He said about 20 minutes between rounds, and
a short rest is an hour.
ASHLEY: Do I have advantage on attack, or no?
TRAVIS: If you go reckless, you can.
ASHLEY: Yes, that's right, I haven't used reckless
yet. Shit.
MATT: You have not used reckless. That gives you
advantage on your attacks.
ASHLEY: That gives me advantage, but that gives
them advantage on attacks.
MATT: Correct. For now it's a straight roll,
there's no disadvantage on that roll.
ASHLEY: Sorry guys. Natural 20.
TRAVIS: So nonchalant with that shit!
MATT: That'll do it. That doubles your weapon and
the d4. You roll those together. It's whatever
that is. It's your 2d6 for your weapon, d6 for
your divine ability, and then your die, so then
double that. Roll those, double that, and then add
your plus seven.
ASHLEY: I see.
MATT: Ooh, no.
LAURA: 17 times two is 34.
TALIESIN: Plus seven.
SAM: Whoa, that's a lot.
ASHLEY: 41.
MATT: How do you want to do this?
(cheering)
ASHLEY: No way, really?
MATT: Yeah, you fucking murdered it!
ALL: (chanting) Yasha!
SAM: Remember, you're twice as big.
MATT: It's currently holding Jester and Beau, and
it looks like it's about to slam them together.
It's pulling them back and their feet are dragging
off the ground and causing grooves in the sand,
and it's (growling).
ASHLEY: I want to take the blade, turn it down,
and straight into the middle of it.
MATT: Which you can do, because at your full
height, you're about as tall as it is. In a
downward angle, you thrust forward and jam it
right into the center of its membrane above its
mouth. As you push down, you watch your blade
actually protrude out the roof of its mouth,
through its mouth, through the tongue, and into
the rest of its body, and as you push, it gives
this horrible squealing, guttural, swine-like
sound, and as you push, and push, and push, it
falls onto its back, and you keep pushing, and you
keep pushing, and the tentacles go limp and
release both Jester and Beau. At that point, you
pull the blade free, and it is not moving on the
ground, bleeding out into the sand.
ALL: Whoa!
LAURA: That was amazing.
MARISHA: That was fucking awesome.
LAURA: I'm going to cast Thaumaturgy and start
whispers throughout the crowd going: (chanting)
Yasha, Yasha! Hopefully the crowd picks it up.
ASHLEY: I run back into the hidden area
immediately, and I don't stay out there.
MATT: Okay, good to know. Enlarge lasts for how
long?
LIAM: A minute, so probably the time it takes her
to cast that spell and you to run into that hole.
Yasha, that should probably end right about (magic
fizzles).
MATT: Your size is reduced to a more diminutive
stance. As you guys back into the inside, the
poison, however, is still holding.
SAM: Oh no. Can we use some medicine?
LAURA: Yes. I've got one kit left so I'm going to
use my medicinal herbs on you, Beau, to get rid of
the poison.
MARISHA: Fuck yeah. Please.
TRAVIS: Where are you at, Jester? Hit point-wise?
LAURA: I'm very low, hit point-wise. I'm at 12 out
of 31.
TRAVIS: You want a health potion?
LAURA: Huh?
LAURA: Oh, I can use my spells to heal us right
now.
TRAVIS: I think you should save--
LAURA: The only thing I have that can get rid of
poisoning is Lesser Restoration, which I can cast
on Yasha right now. I can get rid of the poison on
you.
SAM: Wait, but the poison will go away eventually,
right? Won't it?
TALIESIN: Not before the next fight, I don't
think.
MATT: You don't know.
LAURA: It's probably--
MATT: In your herbalism kit, you can make
antitoxin if you're in a space--
LAURA: No, it's not an herbalism kit, it's
medicinal herbs, which you specifically told me it
removes poison on action.
MATT: Yes. It's a medicine check to apply it
properly, but you can do that.
LAURA: Oh, okay.
SAM: Make that check!
LAURA: Oh no.
TALIESIN: What's your medicine check?
LAURA: I'm proficient-- oh, that's good.
SAM: A lot.
LAURA: Yeah, it's a 23.
MATT: Yeah. As you guys back into the corner, you
manage to go ahead and apply the medicinal herbs,
which are used now, but the poison does manage to
fade from your body, Beau. You are no longer
poisoned. You're using Lesser Restoration on
Yasha, you said? Up to you.
LAURA: Yeah, I'll do it.
MATT: Okay, the poison is removed, which is
probably a good thing because it lasts until
cured.
SAM: Oh wow!
MATT: Technically, it's a disease that causes
poison, but because the nature of the herbs that
you've utilized in this space, it fits in a
similar realm because it's a bacterial infection
that kicks in. I'll say because you got to it
quickly enough and you rolled so high, you were
able to do that.
TRAVIS: Because you got stabbed with poop-teeth.
MATT: Kind of, yeah.
ASHLEY: Jester, what are you at, right now?
LAURA: I'm at 12 hit points.
SAM: You need to heal!
ASHLEY: I give her a potion of healing.
LAURA: Yasha, you need healing too!
ASHLEY: No it's fine!
LAURA: Are you sure?
ASHLEY: Yes, I'm sure.
MARISHA: I won't deny it, but I also won't request
it.
TRAVIS: Yeah, fucking take it.
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: It's what? How many d4? 2d4?
MATT: 2d4 plus two for a healing potion. As you
guys are in the process of doing this, you hear
the voice shouting out-- not even realizing the
other group that walks outside. "The Mountain
"Makers from Grimgolir!" The dwarf and gnome troupe
makes their way out into the field. As the crowd
cheers, the emcee vanishes, and you see an opposing
side open once again. Immediately bursting
through, you see a large, nine-foot troll with
elongated arms and legs start rushing into the
fray, screaming this high-pitched yelp. As it
runs, you can see its skin, as opposed to the deep
forest green that you've read about or seen in
trolls in your experiences, this looks like a dull
teal-blue color. You watch as the dwarves, all of
a sudden, rush in. The gnomes begin casting
spells, and this assault goes back and forth. You
see with each strike this cold mist off the claws
of the troll with each blow. You watch as the
gnomes begin to apply fire upon fire, and you
watch as the entity burns, their intelligent
knowledge of the creature causing it to prevent it
from regenerating. Fairly rapidly, they make short
work of it. They were prepared, and it was not as
intense a battle as you were expecting. With
that--
TRAVIS: Did it look like they prepared anything
with fire before the creature came out?
MATT: To your memory, you didn't know that. You
didn't notice anything. With the final of the
battle, the cheers go wild, the crowd goes crazy,
and eventually, The Mountain Makers make their way
back into the field. Anything else you guys needed
to prepare at this time?
MARISHA: They had real good teamwork. Maybe we
should come up with special moves.
SAM: Like what?
TALIESIN: Like heal.
SAM: Like don't run up so close, or at least wait
a little bit first to gauge the beast.
MARISHA: What?
SAM: Don't run into the -- You're going to die!
MATT: "Out from the Menagerie Coast! The Stubborn
Stock!"
SAM: Oh, that's not us.
MATT: Behind you, as the doors open, they move
past you. Darrow goes, "Hey, wish us luck, friends,"
and enters into the sunlight.
LAURA: Good luck!
MATT: The doors close. Looking out past the way,
another door opens off to the side, and you watch
as a 15-foot-long crocodile becomes barreling into
the center, its jaws opening and snapping as it
comes rushing in. It climbs over the wall that the
guys are getting behind to defend and immediately
snaps down on one of the soldiers, who gets hit in
the side and screams out in pain. They all begin
to rush in and assault, jumping off the wall and
getting onto its back. You watch as Darrow climbs
up onto it, taking a shortsword that one of his
friends had dropped, and jams it into the top of
the head. As he pulls out his battleaxe, he begins
to hack away. He seems to be laughing. Another friend pries
the mouth off of the one soldier that had been
stamped on. He limps away as it spins around, its
tail slapping one of its friends, sending him
flying back ten feet as his weapon goes skidding
into the sky. It hits the dirt off the way. He
runs to try and retrieve it. The battle goes back
and forth for a while. One of their friends goes
down and one of his allies grabs and pulls him
away from the battle zone as he begins to try and
wake him up. At this point, you watch as Darrow
makes a couple of motions to his friends, and they
all cycle in and assault at one time, cutting at
the throat of the large crocodile as Darrow takes
his axe and carves out one of its eyes. As it
pulls back, screaming in pain, they both come
underneath and cut through the throat at the same
time, causing it to bleed out. With that, the
crocodile collapses, not moving, into the field.
MARISHA: Did you see that? He had a sign, and then
things happened.
MATT: They slap awake their ally, and they begin
to drag themselves back into the chamber as the
crowd's cheering. They're a little wounded and a
little winded, but as they come in, "Heh! That
"wasn't too bad! You're on deck, I suppose!" They
bring their friend over to the side, and one--
TRAVIS: They used cover really well. We should try
and hide ourselves better.
SAM: I can make a box!
TALIESIN: No, don't do that.
SAM: I can actually make a 15 foot large box! We
could all fit in it!
LAURA: I'm going to take a healing potion.
TRAVIS: Nott had a great idea actually though. We
should keep our distance.
SAM: Keep our distance. We don't know what door
they're coming out.
TRAVIS: We don't.
SAM: Did we see which door the last two monsters
came out of?
MATT: The one that came out here. The crocodile
came out here.
SAM: That was the last one?
MATT: That was the last one.
ASHLEY: What about the teal thing? What was the--
Who did The Mountain Makers fight?
MATT: Oh, the ice troll! Sorry. The ice troll came
from this side there. They are changing--
ASHLEY: They're changing.
TRAVIS: You people that need to be up close, just
wait until it gets to you. Make him chase you for
a bit. Use the cover. Let's put some damage on it
before--
MARISHA: I could do that. I could be a
distraction--
MATT: "To the front lines again! The Last Line!"
You see as the armored soldiers go back out there
into the field. They get into the center. They
form a phalanx back to back in the center as they
look around in any direction, and you hear
(grunting) (roaring) and two gates open. From each
gate, two large-looking figures come charging out.
You see these sprinting, dark, humanoid creatures
with giant horns out of the front of their head.
Two minotaurs come charging into the center.
Immediately, they both break into two groups and
try to head them off, shields up. One of them gets
thrown, taking the impact of the blow. Knocked
back onto his ass, three feet back. The other one
gets gored immediately, the horns piercing his
armor and throwing him into the air. As this
happens, you notice now they're both wielding
large axes, and they start cleaving into the
opponents. They're giving up a good fight, and it
goes back and forth for a bit, but at one point
you watch one drop, and another drop. A third one
gets grabbed and picked up and then broken over
the knee of one of the minotaurs. At which point,
you see the elven general begins to look around
nervously and starts waving his hand to call it
off just as one of them gores him from behind. He
gets thrown ten feet, landing onto the ground
rolling, unconscious. His blade clattering in the
dirt. There you see Gunther in the center with two
warhammers in his hands, blood down his face
going, "Come on!" They both come charging in at
him from two different sides. Last minute, he
darts backward, causing them to collide into each
other. As they're stunned, he rushes up and jams
his hammer into the head of one of them. Once.
Twice. One of the minotaurs goes down, and right
as he pulls back, the second minotaur gets him
from behind. You watch as a horn pierce where his
liver is, and he falls unconscious on the ground.
They fall. The final minotaur roars up into the
air and the whole crowd goes, "Oh!" You watch as
two groups come out with chains and manacles and
manage to grapple and throw them down. The lasting
minotaur passes out in the chains and they drag
him back off the field. The two clerics rush out
into the field and prevent death to those who are
in the process of slipping. With that, The Last
Line is pulled back, the first fallen out here in
the field.
LAURA: That was intense. Would we be able to have
fought those two minotaurs?
MARISHA and TALIESIN: I don't know.
SAM: No! Of course not!
MATT: "The first fallen in the tournament!"
TALIESIN: Focus on one target at a time.
MATT: "Let us greet back to the field, The Mighty
Nein!" The doors open once more.
MARISHA: She's Cure Woundsing me!
MATT: All righty. Where do you guys wish to be
placed?
LAURA: Is it possible to climb up on one of the
walls?
MATT: If you'd like to try.
LAURA: I'm going to try and climb up on top of the
wall.
MATT: Make an athletics check real fast.
ASHLEY: Am I able to take a potion of healing?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: That's really good. This one, sure. Why
not.
MATT: This one here?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: All righty.
TALIESIN: I'll back up into that far corner.
MATT: This one here?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LAURA: It's a 22.
MATT: Yeah, you're fine.
MARISHA: I'll move here.
MATT: Nott?
SAM: Dead center. I'm going to cast Mage Hand.
MATT: Okay. Yasha?
ASHLEY: I'm going to stand by Caleb, actually.
MATT: Okay. You're with Caleb there?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LAURA: Beau, ten points.
MARISHA: Yes! I love you, Jester!
MATT: All righty. As you guys all take your place,
two gates immediately open again. You hear two
sources of this loud, deep (howling). Leaping
through both sides, you see two massive, white
furred wolves come leaping through into a full
sprint.
LAURA: I Invoke Duplicity in the middle of the--
next to Nott.
MATT: From this side and this side here. You
Invoke Duplicity?
LAURA: Yeah, next to Nott.
MATT: Next to Nott. All righty, I need you all to
roll initiative.
(screaming)
MARISHA: Natural 20!
LIAM: Natural one!
MATT: Aw, Caleb. My dice fell.
LIAM: Hundred dollars.
MATT: Sorry, mic. All righty, for this new round,
25 to 20?
TALIESIN: 21.
MARISHA: 24.
LAURA: 22.
MATT: Oh shit. We have Beau--
TRAVIS: Jester, and Molly.
MATT: You got it. 20 to 15?
ASHLEY: 15! I was just, I'll wait until the end.
Oh wait, I rolled high!
MATT: All right then, it'd be Yasha. 15 to ten?
TRAVIS: Oh no. No, that isn't me either.
MATT: Ten to five?
SAM: Nine.
TRAVIS: Six.
LAURA: Six again, Fjord?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: Two for Caleb.
MATT: Caleb at the bottom.
LIAM: I rolled a natural one, so--.
MATT: Top of the round, as the wolves begin to
emerge, Beau, you're up first.
MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to run (counting) 40, I
guess?
MATT: All righty.
ASHLEY: Look at the blood on there already.
MARISHA: I'm-- Yeah, that's cool-- I'm going to
look at this one and I'm going to go, hey
(whistles), go fetch! I'm going to throw my other
wooden sword at that one, and then I'm going to do
Patient Defense.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Right in the middle of them.
MATT: Make an animal handling check.
MARISHA: Animal handling.
MATT: Just because I want to see what will
happen.
MARISHA: I'm going to use this lucky die that this
Critter gave me! Okay! 20!
MATT: Okay. You throw it.
MARISHA: Come on boy!
MATT: That's your action.
MARISHA: Wait, what do you mean that's my action?
MATT: Yeah, to get its attention and try and throw
it?
MARISHA: I can't take a ki point to do Patient
Defense?
MATT: Patient Defense is a bonus, you're fine.
MARISHA: Okay, so Patient Defense.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: That's it.
MATT: All right, that ends Beau's turn. Jester,
you're up.
LAURA: I'm going to cast Sacred Flame at the one
behind me!
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: That's a dex save.
MATT: That's a failure. That is an eight.
LAURA: Yes!
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on that one.
LAURA: Five points of damage to him!
MATT: Five points of damage, nice. All righty.
SAM: Or her.
MATT: As the divine flame burns up around it, it's
still running.
LAURA: I'm going to make my Invoked Duplicity
Jester run right in the middle of the two walls,
past Fjord.
MATT: Right there?
LAURA: Yeah, and she's going to start going
(gibberish).
MATT: Okay.
ASHLEY: Look at me, look at me!
MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Molly,
you're up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a run towards the fake
Jester.
MATT: All righty. 25. 30
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's where I can get there. I'm
going to try and see if I can make Vicious Mockery
work on this thing.
MATT: You have line of sight.
TALIESIN: I do have line of sight?
MATT: That's a eight, so that hits.
TALIESIN: (sinister voice) Bad doggy!
(laughter)
SAM: Butt turkey?
TALIESIN: Yep, butt turkey, you heard me. That's
one point of psychic damage and it has
disadvantage next attack.
MATT: You got it. That ends Molly's turn. It is
now the wolves' turn. This one is going to run,
pacing around this side, up into that range there.
It's going to rush up and partially pass through
the Jester illusion, look back and see all that
crowd in front, in its area. It pulls back and its
shoulders curl up and the fur expands and (deep
roar). You watch as a burst of freezing winter air
blows out of its open mouth.
LAURA and SAM: (groaning)
MATT: That's going to get all three of you guys.
(laughter)
MATT: I need you all to make a dexterity saving
throw.
LAURA: Even though I am high up?
MATT: Yeah, it's a cone out in that direction.
TRAVIS: Round two.
LAURA: 20.
MATT: That's a success.
LIAM: Four.
MATT: Nope. Yasha?
ASHLEY: Natural one.
MATT: Okay!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Oh, fuck me. Oh god.
MATT: 16 points of cold damage to Yasha and Caleb
and eight points to you, Jester.
LAURA: Already? Eight points to me?
MATT: Yes.
LAURA: Halved because I'm resistant to cold
damage.
MATT: Exactly, so four. The other one is going to
(galloping noises) turn around--
MARISHA: What?!
MATT: It's not going for a wooden sword.
MARISHA: I rolled a natural 20!
LIAM: You can certainly try.
MATT: It saw it for a moment. It's going to move,
rush up here.
MARISHA: That was a ki point! A very valuable ki
point!
MATT: It was running out and you whistled and it
went (grunt) and kept running.
MARISHA: Fuck!
MATT: It's going to go ahead and blast another
cold air bit in that direction that will go for
both Molly and Fjord. I need you both to roll
dexterity saving throws, please.
LAURA: Roll high.
TRAVIS: Oh.
LAURA: Oh no.
TALIESIN: Eight.
TRAVIS: 12.
MATT: You barely succeed!
TRAVIS: Ooh!
MATT: Molly does not. That is 26 points of cold
damage to you, Molly. I rolled really well on that.
SAM: Oh, jeez!
MATT: That's 13 to you, Fjord.
LAURA: 26 points?
TALIESIN: I am not resistant to cold.
MATT: You are not, unfortunately, no.
TRAVIS: 13, yeah okay.
TALIESIN: Ow!
SAM: Wait! You're out?
TALIESIN: No, I'm fine. I'm not fine but ow!
MATT: Yeah, and as it finishes blowing, it growls
in place. That's going to end its turn.
SAM: Damn.
MATT: Yeah, so that will bring us to the next
round. That's Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay.
SAM: (shouting) Pick one and focus fire on that
one!
ASHLEY: Okay, so reckless. Let me see something
here. Sorry. Where's the hex? Divine Fury? Can I
do that as well?
MATT: All righty. Go for it.
LAURA: Are you raging?
ASHLEY: I don't have any more.
LAURA: Oh no!
ASHLEY: Yeah.
SAM: You raged too much in the games of chance.
ASHLEY: Wait, do I have advantage, or that's it?
MATT: You have advantage with your attacks, if
you're reckless.
ASHLEY: Sorry. Natural 20 again.
(cheering)
MATT: That will hit!
ASHLEY: Divine Fury is an extra--
MATT: d6.
TALIESIN: Ah! Should have had disadvantage.
MATT: Disadvantage doesn't affect it. It's a
cone.
TALIESIN: It's a cone? Yeah, okay.
MATT: Sorry.
TALIESIN: All right.
ASHLEY: Ugh. (counting) Eight.
MATT: See, technically it would be-- It was a
natural 20? You only roll three of those dice.
ASHLEY: Well, is Divine Fury an extra d6.
MATT: Yes, that's how it is.
ASHLEY: It's three, I'm sorry.
MATT: Roll again, that's fine. It's 2d6 reroll.
It's okay.
ASHLEY: Okay. (counting) Seven, ten, 27.
MATT: 27 points of damage! You carve a hefty chunk
out of this wolf as you slam down with your blade.
As it carves past, you see where the white fur has
now become red on its left side. It (whimpers)
pulls back from the pain. Part of its flesh is
flapping from the wound you left as you draw the
blade back. That was a pretty hefty hit. That ends
Yasha's turn. Nott, you're up.
SAM: Okay, I'm going to aim for that flap of
skin.
MATT: Fjord, you're up next.
SAM: Fire. 25 to hit.
MATT: That definitely hits.
SAM: That is 16 points of damage.
MATT: 16 points of damage. Beautiful!
SAM: I will run. Nope, I will fire again.
(reloading) Same place.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: 16 to hit.
MATT: That hits! Roll damage.
SAM: Six points.
MATT: Six to that guy. As both bolts hit the open
wound that Yasha left behind, it's now starting to
growl and look like it's in pain and is getting
cornered-animal angry.
SAM: I'm going to run this way, as far as my
little-- well, so I can still see everybody and
the action.
MATT: All right, that ends Nott's turn. Fjord,
you're up.
TRAVIS: I'm going to cast Armor of Agathys on
myself, and I'm going to use my bonus action to
cast Hex on the wolf that's nearest to Yasha and
give it disadvantage on dexterity checks. I'm
going to use my movement to run towards that
wolf.
MATT: This wolf here?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: You can get there.
TRAVIS: In between Molly and Yasha.
MATT: The one that you run away from does snap at
you with its maw. I know you guys love that word.
I know I do. That is going to be a nine. That does
not hit, it's a three plus six. Its jaws snap
behind you and you hear the impact, but it's too
far below you. That ends Fjord's go. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: I pull out a cat's paw and say: (stuttering)
Bad dog. Maximilian's Grasping Cat's Claw comes
out by that one there. It has to make a strength
saving throw.
MATT: This one here?
LIAM: Ja, but it has to save.
MATT: Strength saving throw. That is going to be a
12. What's your DC?
LIAM: 15.
MATT: 15, no. He is held in place. As the hand
creeps up and grabs it, it (yelps) and it's held
in place now, up off the ground, its paws held as
this giant caw paw is holding the doggy.
LIAM: Und I will move that ways to make a
triangle with the two dogs and myself to get as
far away as I can get.
MARISHA: What does restraining it do?
LIAM: Everyone gets advantage on it and it's at
disadvantage to hit us.
SAM: That's great!
MATT: That ends Caleb's turn. At the top, Beau,
you're up. Jester, you're up next.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to look around with my
defensive stance and be like "Aw, fucking really?"
and then go: Parkour! Stab!
LAURA: No, attack the one that's by all of us!
MARISHA: No, this guy's got advantage!
TRAVIS: Stay out of the cone, get on the
backside.
MARISHA: It's fine! Oh, wait, that guy's cone?
MATT: You're already there.
MARISHA: Well, it's on.
MATT: You're there. You have advantage on your
strikes, though.
MARISHA: I'm coming down very hard and heavy.
Advantage. I'll take that natural 19, and then for
my second one-- advantage on all of them?
MATT: Yeah, because it's restrained.
MARISHA: I'll take that 13?
MATT: 13 just hits.
MARISHA: Okay, so the first one: not great, six
damage? Second one: better, eight damage.
MATT: Eight damage, all righty. As you leap over,
slamming your fist down-- or, your staff down-- on
the nostril of the restrained wolf, and then as
you land, hit it with the back of your elbow. It
takes the impact, but it can't move anywhere; it's
held in place by this magical--
MARISHA: Do I still have a little bit of
movement?
MATT: You do.
MARISHA: Can I move behind it a little bit?
MATT: It would be-- Yeah.
LIAM: Oh, also, sorry. It takes bludgeoning damage
from the attack that I gave it.
MATT: Roll damage for that, please. You're trying
to move around it? You have about 15 more feet of
movement, I'll say.
MARISHA: Can I come right here to it? You know
what-- nah, it's fine. Whatever works, it's all
good. I'm into it all.
LIAM: Six.
MATT: Six damage, got it. That ends Beau's turn.
Jester, you're up. Molly, you're on deck.
LAURA: Having seen Beau do that just then and it
looked really cool, I'm going to jump off the wall
with my handaxe in my hand and try to come down
onto the back of the one right there.
MATT: Okay, so you're going to run across the
wall?
MARISHA: Hardcore parkour!
LAURA: That is a 17 to hit! Nine points of
damage!
MATT: Nine points of slashing damage against this,
nice.
MARISHA: Fighting's more epic when you're flying
through the air!
MATT: As you carve down with the axe and it cuts
through, it yelps again. You guys are cutting it
up pretty bad. It's hurting. It's not on death's
door or anything, but it's hurting. Its fur is
starting to get matted with its own blood with
each blow. That ends Jester's turn-- or, anything
else you want to do with your turn?
LAURA: Can I back up? Is it going to get an attack
of opportunity?
MATT: Only one way to find out.
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: That's a yes.
LAURA: Oh no! Well, I'm going to move around him.
I'm going to move to his tail. To the pillar, yeah.
MATT: Okay, you're right up against the pillar,
we'll say. That ends your turn, Jester. Molly,
you're up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a slashing attack at
the guy right in front of me.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: That's-- oh, goddamn it-- that's 12 to
hit?
MATT: 12 does not hit, unfortunately. It ducks out
of the way.
TALIESIN: I'm going to hit it again. Oh my god,
it's a natural fucking one.
(mix of cheers and groans)
MATT: You're trying to swing at it, but
unfortunately, for some reason, the howl of its
presence and it moving so quickly in front of you
throws you off and your blades are not going well.
TALIESIN: I'm going to try and circle around a
little bit to space everybody out a bit.
MATT: That ends your turn, Molly. It's now the
wolf's turn. Let's see if they get their breath
back. Nope and nope, neither of them do!
TRAVIS: Huge!
MATT: They are both going to make a single bite
attack. One of them is going to be, let's see,
against you, Yasha. You did the most amount of
damage to it, so it's going to make a bite attack
against you.
SAM: No!
MATT: That is going to be-- and it has advantage,
since you used your reckless. That's going to be--
TALIESIN: It still has disadvantage from the-- for
its attack, though.
MATT: Right, so it would have been the first
strike. That would be a total of 14. What's your
armor class?
ASHLEY: 14.
MATT: Aw, just hits! That would be 12 points of
piercing damage as it bites down on you with its
giant jaws. I need you to make a strength saving
throw, which you do not have advantage, currently,
because you're not raging.
SAM: You're still strong.
LIAM: Super buff, and not just in the game.
ASHLEY: 24.
MATT: Success, it does not knock you prone. It
bites and tries to throw you onto the ground, but
you push off of its jaws and use the back of the
wall to steel yourself and kick its mouth off of
you and still stand there, resolute, with your
blade in hand. The other one is going to attempt
to break free. It does not like being held in
place by there. What does it have to roll to break free?
LIAM: 15.
MATT: 15? What kind of check?
LIAM: Oh, strength.
MATT: Strength? 13 plus four, that's 17, yeah. It
manages to break free of the hand.
LIAM: That's its action, correct, to break free?
MATT: That's its action, correct. It will move
over here to flank up right there. Beau, you do
get an attack of opportunity as it moves out of
the space, and if you hit it, it does prevent it
from moving.
MARISHA: (singing) It does! 14!
MATT: 14 hits.
(cheering)
MATT: It gets dragged back. It does not get into
melee with the rest of your friends as you grab
that tail and then pull it back.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's eight damage. It's like a
Looney Tunes cartoon. My heels are dug in.
MATT: As you're pulling the tail, it's screaming.
MARISHA: Show me your belly!
LIAM: It felt its gooch almost rip out.
(sympathetic groans)
MATT: That's going to end their turn. Yasha,
you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to take another attack.
Wait, I'm within ten-- oh, yeah, I'm right next to
Fjord, huh?
MATT: Yeah.
ASHLEY: All right, I'm going to take another
attack.
MATT: Go for it.
ASHLEY: Reckless, all the stuffs.
LAURA: How you want to do this!
ASHLEY: Natural one.
MATT: Good thing you went reckless.
ASHLEY: Natural 20!
(cheering)
MATT: Jesus! I think you found your snitch!
ASHLEY: Okay. Nine, 18 (counting) 25 points of
damage.
MATT: 25 points.
ASHLEY: Probably still not enough.
MATT: No, how do you want to do this?
(cheering)
ASHLEY: I want to grab over his head, rip--
MATT: Technically, it's not plus two with rage,
because it's not plus seven, right? Because you
weren't raging.
ASHLEY: Say that again?
MATT: It's 23.
ASHLEY: It's 23, okay.
MATT: Because you're not raging, remember. There
is two damage from that you don't have on the plus
seven, so it's plus five.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Still enough to finish it, but I wanted to
let you know.
ASHLEY: Wait, what's the plus five-- break it down
again?
MATT: It's plus three for strength, plus two for
your Divine Fury, and then plus two for your rage
damage-- that makes it plus seven, but you're not
raging.
ASHLEY: Okay, right, I see what you're saying.
MATT: It had 22 hitpoints left, so you still
manage to carve it down.
(relieved groaning)
ASHLEY: Okay, sorry. I need to write all these
down in my notes later so we don't have to keep
going through this. I'm going to go over the top
of his head and force his jaw open and then take
my blade and put it through its mouth, straight
through its mouth. Skewer it.
MATT: As the blade carves through, you hear it
yelp, and its growl turns into this low, guttural
(fading growl), and goes limp in your grip as you
push it and draw the blade from its body. It
slumps onto the ground, right at the base of
Jester. Molly, you both take a step back as the
body slumps to the ground, no longer moving. Hex
is off.
LAURA: I pet him and say: Good doggy.
MATT: That's the end of Yasha's turn. Nott, you're
up.
SAM: I do what I always do, I fire my crossbow at
the beast, for a 14 to hit?
MATT: That hits.
SAM: All right-- ooh, and it's sneak--
LAURA: It is definitely sneak attack.
SAM: Oh, 12 points of damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage to it, all right.
SAM: How's everyone-- is everyone alive right
now?
LAURA: Everyone's up.
TALIESIN: Barely. Yasha could use some healing.
SAM: Yasha's right next to me-- I mean Beau.
LIAM: Ah, couldn't see her behind the wall.
SAM: I will do the same thing. I will reload and
fire again.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: That's a miss. Ten points.
MATT: Ten to attack, you mean?
SAM: Ten to attack.
MATT: (arrow firing sound) It goes too wide. It
hits the stone behind, almost hitting Beau. You're
like (scattering sound) as it sparks off the
stone. No impact.
SAM: I'll duck behind the wall and hide like a
weakling.
MATT: There you go. Nott the Brave, by the name.
Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: With my bonus action, can I transfer my
Hex onto this wolf, and can I start running around
to get to its right hindquarter? Staying in melee,
but getting on its rear.
MATT: Oh, you're going in melee with it?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: All right, so you move there.
TRAVIS: Can I keep coming this way a little bit
more? Yeah, right there. I reach back, and as I
start to swing my hand up, I'll summon the
Wastehunter falchion and slice up through it.
MATT: As the blade appears in the hand, you see a
blast of greenish energy as the blade apparates
out of his grip. As he swings upward, it sends an
arc of seawater splashing into the air. Go ahead
and roll for an attack.
LAURA: Both me and my invoked Jester go: Ooh.
TRAVIS: That's 26 to hit.
MATT: That definitely hits.
LIAM: Is this the same sword we've always seen? I
don't remember the word-- Liam doesn't remember
the word Wastehunter.
MATT: Same sword, looks a little different.
TRAVIS: 13 points of damage.
MATT: 13 points of damage to it.
TRAVIS: One d6 necrotic for another four, so 17
total.
MATT: As you arc upward, it cuts upward, the
splash of seawater mixed with the arc of blood
from the wound. The way you carved up hits the
back of its thigh, and one leg collapses for a
second and it looks over at you with these angry,
piercing blue eyes. It's looking pretty hurt. It's
limping to that side, now. You guys see that the
falchion has a slight curve to it and has a hooked
end to the back of its design. That finishes your
turn, Fjord. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: Ja, just deadpan, I do this around my hand
and I cast three Scorching Rays out of it at this
thing. The first does not hit at all, it was a two
plus something. The second one hits: 19 plus seven
is 26. The third one hits: 16 plus seven hits.
MATT: That hits, go and roll for damage.
LIAM: (counting) Four, five, (frustrated noise).
Total of nine fire damage.
TRAVIS: Nein!
MATT: Total of nine fire damage to it. As it's
turning back and forth and growling, and Beau's
harrying it from the side, the two rays of fire
slam into its side and it turns back around. You
can see the dark burn marks on its white fur where
the impacts have started to burn, and you can see
some of the skin underneath where the hair has
been burned away is black and cracked. It's hurt
pretty bad.
LIAM: I call out as I walk backwards slowly:
Fjord, you got this? Good. I walk, deadpan,
sideways behind that piece of stone.
(laughter)
MATT: Perfect. Ending Caleb's turn, Beau, you're
up.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to take my staff-- after
I threw my sword, I'm going to crack it in the
nuts and crack it over the top.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: First attack and second-- first attack is
a natural one!
LAURA: It was so slow--
MARISHA: It really was. Second attack is a 17.
MATT: 17 does hit.
MARISHA: That's in there. That is a four, so eight
damage.
MATT: Eight points of damage.
LAURA: Maybe the dice gods really want the charity
to do well.
LIAM: I think that's it.
MATT: As you slam it with the second hit up in its
groin area, it's impacted. It's hanging on. It's
hurting, but it's pretty beat up.
MARISHA: Spay and neuter your pets! I'm going to
do Flurry of Blows and I'm going to do one more.
LIAM: Oh, get it. Finish him.
MARISHA: Oh my god! Another natural one!
LIAM: That's good.
TRAVIS: Fuck, it really is.
SAM: Terrible.
MARISHA: That's two natural ones in my turn.
MATT: Yasha and Beau have been hitting two sides
of coin tonight. All right--
MARISHA: Bob Barker is not here tonight.
MATT: I know, how many ki points do you have
left?
MARISHA: That's it. Done.
MATT: That's the last one. All right.
SAM: Oh, no.
MARISHA: Doneskis.
MATT: Well, that ends Beau's turn, Jester you're
up, and Molly you're after that.
LAURA: I'm going to Toll the Dead.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: My invoked Jester is going to run around
and stand next to Fjord.
MATT: Okay. Runs around-- It rolled a 14, what's
your DC?
LAURA: 14.
MATT: Resists it, unfortunately.
SAM: Oh, no. No toll.
MATT: Sorry.
LAURA: No toll or anything.
MATT: Anything else on your turn?
LAURA: I think that's basically all I can do,
though.
MATT: Okay. Molly you're up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to breathe deep and take a run
at this damn thing.
TRAVIS: Come on.
TALIESIN: Straight into it and I'm going to come
swinging out at it.
TRAVIS: Tell us how you taxidermy it.
TALIESIN: That's a hit, that's a 23 to hit?
MATT: That'll hit.
TALIESIN: This thing doesn't take extra damage
from this does it?
MATT: No, it does not.
TALIESIN: No, that's fine. Seven points of damage
for the first hit.
MATT: Seven points, all righty.
TALIESIN: Is that right? No, wait, yeah that's
right. Then, 23 to hit-- 21 to hit.
MATT: Yep, roll damage.
TALIESIN: That's seven points of damage again.
MATT: How do you want to do this?
(cheering)
TALIESIN: I want to go in and I want to see if I
can carve through the mouth as deep in-- I'm going
to try and get right in there-- I'm going to do a
dental jawbreaker.
MATT: As you go rushing towards it, it opens its
jaws to strike. You slide down and with one
scimitar you jam up into its lower jaw, which
causes its upper jaw to be stuck and as you pull
it out its jaw falls open. As it does, your other
blade, you backswing dropping-- not dropping, but
holding on with both hands on the other side,
swing through and as it carves in, you actually
get about one to two feet inward as the jaw lolls
open. The tongue slips out as you cut it from the
inside of the mouth. Its eyes go dull as the
creature's body collapses to the ground, no longer moving.
ASHLEY: Fucking yes.
MATT: With that point, the whole crowd goes
cheering--
TRAVIS: Yasha, Yasha.
ALL: Yasha, Yasha.
MATT: The gates where you came open, and you all
go and return.
LAURA: The minute that it ends I'm going to start
casting Prayer of Healing.
MATT: Okay, as you guys step into the back
chamber, you cast Prayer of Healing.
LAURA: Yeah. Who all is injured right now?
ASHLEY: I'm pretty bad.
LAURA: One, two, three, four.
LIAM: I'm pretty shit.
MARISHA: I'm not too bad.
LAURA: You're not and you're not at all?
SAM: I've been drinking and hiding.
LAURA: Okay, so I'm going to cast it on the five
of us.
MATT: All righty.
LIAM: I could get knocked out by a crownsguard
right now.
TRAVIS: Could you give it to one more? Do you have
to spare?
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Okay, I'll take some.
LAURA: Oh yeah, that's what I'm asking. I can do
six people.
TRAVIS: Okay, great.
LAURA: That's decent. 14 points to everyone.
SAM: Oh that's great. That's huge. Wow. Healer.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: I think Laura is the best healer we've ever
had.
(laughter)
MATT: As you guys pull back into your chamber,
there's a few nods. Darrow's clapping and the rest
of his team are clapping. There's a clap from two
of the Mountain Makers off to the side. At which
point, "The Mountain Makers!" are announced and
they step out into the space. As they all gather,
hiding in the corner, spreading out a bit, two of
the sides open. Out of one, two large furred
entities about eight to nine feet tall come
rushing in with a combination of fur and feathers,
these hooked, dark beaks at the tips of their
mouths. Two owlbears come running in and go into
an assault on these people. They took some hits in
the last battle, and as it goes back and forth,
you watch as they're striking it and cutting
through. The owlbears are screaming this horrible
squeal of pain and anguish combined with ravenous
anger, and they start tearing and pulling into
them. One of them grabs the gnome in its beak,
pulls up and tears its throat out. The gnome
gurgles as it falls to the ground. The two clerics
immediately come up to the side, getting ready to
rush out there to try and save its life. Another
one of them manages to hit one of the owlbears in
its leg as it falls on the ground and they all
start slashing on it. It looks like one owlbear is
about to fall as the other one, in a complete
frenzy either partnered or what, tears and grabs
one of the dwarves and starts biting into its face
as it screams, it falls unconscious on the ground.
It grabs another, and bites into its chest,
throwing it into the sky as they spin off to the
side. As they all begin to pick up to assault the
one that's going after them, the one on the ground
slowly gets back up and joins the fray. You watch
one by one as these owlbears, on the cusp of
dying, tear through the Mountain Makers.
At which point, the crowd goes like (gasp) "Whoa!"
Big cheers. Cheers because it's a display, but
also that mournful "Whoa", that low bass-y sound.
At which point you see the two groups come out
again with the chains and the come up to the
outskirts of the owlbears which then pass out, and
they put the manacles on and then pull them away.
TRAVIS: They pass out when the manacles go on?
MATT: Right as they get up to them, they pass out.
They pull them off, and drag them, the gates open
wipe, the clerics rush out and grab and drag in
the bodies. The gnome is gone but one of the
clerics reaches over and touches him, and for a
moment later (gasps) breath comes back and you
watch the wound close up somewhat. Brought from
death. As they pull the group in--
LAURA: I need to learn that.
MATT: The shout comes for the next group. "The
Stubborn Stock returns!" and Darrow and his team
rush out, giving a pat on the shoulder to Yasha on
the rush out. They go out to the middle field, the
gates close, and there, two of the gates open on
the sides and you see these dark shapes kind of--
(materialization noise)
SAM: Oh, no.
MATT: Almost skittering but shifting, their
position seems hard to map. At which point you see
Darrow glance on the side and he goes, "Oh no, I
know what this is!" You watch as these large
panther-like creatures with large tendrils off
their back whipping begin rushing inward.
MARISHA: (shouting) Displacer Beasts!
MATT: One of them swings and strikes, but as he
strikes it passes through and it all of a sudden
shifts, and was not in the space where it blow and
it pounces onto one of his adventurers. They begin
to hack back and forth, crowding up around each
other back to back, one of them is pulling out his
longbow and letting loose arrow after arrow. Some
striking, some missing. One of them all of a
sudden the phase is lost, it gets struck, and now
it is in a solid place. They use that moment for
all of them to dash in and surround this one
creature. They manage to, within one round, carve
down this one displacer beast on one side, the
other pouncing onto Darrow and holding him to the
ground. Its back legs clawing into his belly as
the others try and pull it off. Darrow takes a
serious series of wounds before he manages to pull
himself free. The displacer beast grabs another of
its friends and snaps him in his face. He falls
unconscious and whips around. They strike at it a
few times, but they can't seem to find where its
body is. It is dodging around until finally Darrow
is back up, his face covered in blood, takes his
battle axe and swings wide and clocks it in the
side of the jaw. Its strange illusion form
vanishes at that point, its body coming to a very
condensed location. They all swarm this one, and
one by one tear it down for the next round.
They're hurt, their bruised, and Darrow's looking
rough, but with that the Stubborn Stock raise
their hands "The Stubborn Stock, continues!" and
the crowd cheers.
LAURA: I was hoping they would lose.
MATT: As they pull back in, the MC walks back out.
"Two rounds completed, and only two teams remain
for the third and final round, will they all fall?
Will they all survive? We shall see as next, we
call forth The Mighty Nein!" Any preparation you
guys have in this moment as the doors begin to open?
SAM: Everyone--
TRAVIS: I'm tapped.
SAM: Wait!
MARISHA: I'm so tapped.
SAM: Wait! What if we just stood next to all the
doors and held our action until something came out
of them?
TALIESIN: Then they would be alone out there for
like two rounds.
SAM: What are you talking about?
LAURA: Well we attack and then run to the middle.
TRAVIS: Plus somebody's going to be super danger
close right off the bat.
SAM: Yeah, but we get a hit in on them the second
they came out.
MARISHA: I'm kind of into it. I--
TALIESIN: That seems like a terrible plan.
SAM: Why is that a terrible idea?
TRAVIS: We've got some super squishy people in
here that won't make it past--
TALIESIN: We're all one hit away from--
LAURA: We might get a surprise attack on them.
SAM: We would get a surprise round on them!
TALIESIN: I don't think we would get--
MARISHA: There's only like four doors right?
SAM: Yeah, so pick four people I'll take one of
them.
MARISHA: Pick the less squishy?
TRAVIS: All right, if that's what you guys want to
do.
LAURA: Let's do it.
TALIESIN: I think it's a terrible plan.
MARISHA: It might be a terrible plan.
SAM: Let's do it!
MARISHA: No, no, no, I'm kind of into it.
ASHLEY: We could also try to get inside and get
the chains because they are scared of those and--
LIAM: I am snapping my fingers and bringing
Frumpkin scarf-like around my neck, under my hood.
Just to have him with me.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Yasha--
MATT: At this point the crowd's cheering, "Mighty
Nein! Mighty Nein! Mighty Nein!"
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: The doors are open, what are you guys
doing?
TRAVIS: I'll go take one of the doors.
SAM: I'm taking a door.
ASHLEY: I'm taking a fucking door.
TRAVIS: For the record, I do not like this plan.
SAM: I love it!
ASHLEY: I don't like it.
MATT: Who's going where?
MARISHA: If we stay flanking somebody, anyone who
runs away from us--
ASHLEY: Oh that's true, that's true.
MARISHA: Maybe we can go, you want to take a
door?
MATT: How long does your illusion last?
LAURA: Invoke Duplicity I think lasts for-- I want
to say an hour but I don't know if it does.
LIAM: I will stay with Fjord.
SAM: I'll take a door.
MATT: Caleb's going to stay with Fjord.
TRAVIS: You should get some distance.
MARISHA: Yasha and I will take a door.
SAM: Just pick me a door.
MATT: Pick you a door? No, you get to pick, Nott.
SAM: This one's fine, it don't matter.
MATT: Right next to there.
TRAVIS: Any ideas?
TALIESIN: This is such a bad idea.
TRAVIS: The idea is that whatever doors they come
out of will get one surprise round and
then whoever's by those doors better be able to
take some damage--
MARISHA: Defend themselves, yeah.
TRAVIS: You don't want to be near me. You should
be in the middle, able to move.
MATT: What are you doing, Yasha?
ASHLEY: I'm over there flanking with Beau.
LAURA: I'm going to go, with me and you Molly on
the other door.
TALIESIN: This is such a bad idea.
SAM: (laughter)
TALIESIN: This is going to be like two rounds to
get to whoever--
MATT: How long does Invoke Duplicity last?
TALIESIN: You're going to be alone for two full
rounds with whatever this thing is.
MARISHA: I'm fast as fuck.
TALIESIN: Yeah, what if you're there-- what if it
comes out of that door?
LIAM: All right, this is how much time we have to
plan in the moment as this is happening.
TALIESIN: This is a terrible plan.
MATT: Guys--
MARISHA: Wait what are all the doors by-the-by?
TRAVIS: Yeah, there are four doors right?
MARISHA: There are four doors?
TALIESIN: No, there's one two--
MATT: For one minute, so your Invoke Duplicity's
gone.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to hop up--
TRAVIS: I don't know if the map is accurate to how
many doors there are--
MARISHA: Yeah, Matt, can you please do us a favor
and point out the doors?
MATT: Right. One, two, the map is accurate to
them, four--
TRAVIS: Fuck that, no, no, no we've got to get in
the middle. This is a terrible plan.
MARISHA: There are five doors.
TRAVIS: There's too many doors.
TALIESIN: Yeah, no.
MATT: Five doors. You guys exit from this one
here.
LAURA: I'm going to do the same thing and hop up
on a wall like last time.
SAM: Wait, we come in from one of the doors, so
there's only four.
MATT: Yeah, you came in from this one.
MARISHA: Oh, that's a good point.
SAM: Yeah, there's only four doors.
TRAVIS: There's those four others besides the one
we came in?
MATT: Four others beside you guys yeah.
LIAM: This is about how well we do--
MATT: Guys, quickly. Coming in, what are you
doing?
MARISHA: Four doors, four doors, I'm going to--
I'm going to stay by Yasha.
MATT: What's your plan?
MARISHA: Anything else I don't care.
LAURA: I'm going to hold my attack for the door
that--
TALIESIN: I'm going to go to the opposite point
from Caleb.
TRAVIS: No, no, we got to come in the center, we
got to take advantage of the sentinels.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: That's the point of the feat. We're spread
way too fucking thin.
TALIESIN: Yeah, this is so bad.
TRAVIS: Go back in the middle like we thought we
were going to do.
TALIESIN: We're going to drop so fast.
MATT: The crowd cheering dies down, what are you
guys doing?
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay. How about we take Sam's
similar approach, but we guard these four incidences.
MATT: What are you doing?
MARISHA: Okay Yasha and I are going to move here,
and guard these two.
TALIESIN: I'm going to go against the wall,
against the back of that wall there.
SAM: I stay where I am and I'm casting Mage Hand.
LIAM: It is hard to walk on two legs, maybe four
is better.
SAM: Holding my attack!
LAURA: I want to be on the other one.
ASHLEY: Nott, you're staying there?
SAM: I'm staying and I'm holding my attack until
something runs out of my door.
MATT: Nott, you're staying there?
SAM: I'm ready to shoot anything that comes out of
this door.
TALIESIN: You're going to be at disadvantage
because it's going to be right next to you.
LAURA: You're too close.
SAM: No, I'm not. I have a crossbow feat.
ASHLEY: They won't see him maybe they won't--
MATT: As the quiet has this stillness that's come
across the whole battlefield, every breath is
being held. You all in your chaos, running around
and trying to shout orders to each other, you all
eventually come to settle in this place. (slow,
heavy footfalls, roaring) All the doors come
upward. Heavy, repeated footfalls hit, before
bursting out of the far end, you see a Hill Giant
come barreling through.
(yelling)
MATT: Knocking that pillar down, as it stands
there in the center of the field, you see now its--
TRAVIS: (shouting) My door, my door!
MATT: It has these tiny little spines stuck into
it, like it's been agitated and pushed to a point
of absolute rage and anger. It's just roaring.
SAM: I-- I let my crossbow bolt go.
MATT: All right, you release it?
SAM: Just out into the-- "Oh fuck!" No, not at it.
Nope.
MATT: All right, and this is where we're going to
pick up next week.
(yelling)
MATT: Because it's 11 o'clock.
TRAVIS: Two spines in the side.
ASHLEY: Dang it! I want to fight it right now!
MARISHA and MATT: I know.
LIAM: Yep.
MARISHA: I have no ki points.
TRAVIS: Oh my God.
MATT: That's going to be fun.
SAM: That is a huge thing.
TRAVIS: (laughter) My door!
MARISHA: That's good times.
TALIESIN: Aren't you glad you weren't standing
there by yourself for that?
TRAVIS: Yep.
MARISHA: I mean--
SAM: Would have gotten two hits in.
MARISHA: You would have been fine.
SAM: We're just as far away from the thing.
TALIESIN: You get one.
SAM: Yeah, but there was two people standing next
to that door.
LAURA: No, there was just Fjord.
SAM: At one point there was Fjord and Caleb.
LAURA: Yeah, he moved.
MARISHA: Caleb wussed out.
SAM: If you had stuck to the plan, you would have
gotten two hits, and we're all just as far away as
we were before.
MaTT: It's true. We're going to pick up next week
at the start of this final round.
LAURA: Oh, god.
TALIESIN: It would have been three rounds before I
could do any damage. Before it killed him.
SAM: Well you shouldn't have been that far away.
TALIESIN: (shouting) It's my door! Oh, my god.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Oh, my god.
MATT: Oh, man. This is going to be fun.
TALIESIN: Overestimating the value of surprise.
MATT: This is a very angry hill giant rushing
towards you right now. Giant great club in its
hand. It's going to be fun. All right guys, we'll
pick this up next week. In the meantime, have a
good week, thank you guys for watching, we love
you very much. Check out on Tuesday Pillars of
Eternity 2 coming out. Super excited about that.
Once again thank you for D&D Beyond for being
amazing, and all you guys for checking in. Have a
wonderful week, and "Is it Thursday yet?" Good night.